http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/opinion/lindin-misogyny-rodger-killings/index.html	opinion	Opinion: In killer's world, victims get blamed - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 03:22:01 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Emily Lindin is a graduate student at University of California, Santa Barbara, and the founder of The UnSlut Project, which works against sexual bullying and "slut shaming." She is the creator of the upcoming "Slut: A Documentary Film." Follow her project on Twitter and Facebook. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- A powerful reaction to women-hater Elliot Rodger's killing rampage Friday night has been the Twitter hashtag #YesAllWomen, where women point out how misogyny and sexism damage them and restrict their lives. It emerged in response to the common, misguided argument that "not all men" are like that. Of course not all men are like Elliot Rodger. But he is the product of a culture that condones and in many cases endorses the belief that if you are a "nice guy" -- or a "supreme gentleman" as Rodger described himself -- you are somehow entitled to sex with women. Gun control, campus safety and mental illness are all issues raised by the massacre, but hatred of women concerns me most. I am the founder of The UnSlut Project, which fights "slut shaming" and sexual bullying in our schools and communities. I'm also a graduate student at University of California, Santa Barbara, where the rampage took place. Why #YesAllWomen took off on Twitter Rodger and others like him believe that sex is a reward to be earned, not a consensual activity between adults who respect each other, and that women are prizes to be won, not actual people with the agency to make decisions about their own bodies. Nowhere is this mindset more obvious than in the reactions of some men who actually sympathize with Rodger. Many of these men are self-described Pick-Up Artists, or PUAs, who employ a series of strict rules in order to manipulate women into having sex with them, referring to those women as their "targets." Rodger allegedly participated in forums on the site PUAHate, which criticizes Pick-Up Artists not because of their obviously misogynist tactics, but because those tactics didn't work for him and other PUAHate members. The site shut down Saturday morning with the message: "PUAHate is about to get a massive amount of press," according to the watchdog Southern Poverty Law Center. After the killings, the extent of misogyny in this community was revealed in the creation of a Facebook page called "Elliot Rodger Is an American Hero," with the advice for everyone to "share your thoughts and pay your respects to Elliot Rodger here. Also, view this final message from our beloved hero," which links to his videotaped rant, with commenters expressing solidarity with his desire for revenge against women. The page has since been taken down. The creator of the popular PUA site "Return of Kings" -- where "women and homosexuals are prohibited from commenting" -- claimed, "More people will die unless you give men sexual options." "Manosphere" sites like Return of Kings admire "alpha males," disparage "beta males," and promote hypermasculinity. But again, most men are not members of these hate communities and not all men hold similar beliefs. That's not the point. These views are just extreme versions of very common, socially acceptable ideas about women and sex. Rodger was undoubtedly mentally unstable, but some of the sexist ideas in his manifesto are, unfortunately, not the invention of a madman. They're the norm. This is the first time I have publicly identified myself as a graduate student at UCSB. I founded The UnSlut Project by blogging my own middle school diary, so I use a pen name and guard my identity in order to protect people I mentioned in those diary entries. But in the wake of this crisis, I want to speak out. The university has responded in an admirable way: setting up a 24-hour call center and extensive counseling options to help students cope, establishing the U.C .Santa Barbara Community Fund to honor the victims, and organizing campuswide memorial events. Opinion: Shooter's rage at women too familiar in America As the details of Rodger's history and the crime itself continue to emerge, we will have a better idea of the institutional steps that could have been taken to prevent it. We will write letters to our representatives and use our votes to speak up about what we believe should be done to prevent future tragedies. But in the meantime, on a personal level, we need to take responsibility for our own reactions to this story. We teach our children from a young age that a girl's value as a human being is inextricably linked to her sexual behavior. Her virginity is something to be "given up" or even "lost." Sex with her is a prize to be won -- and she herself is equated with that "prize." In stark contrast, boys are taught that their virginity is something to be ashamed of. Their masculinity depends on sexual prowess and physical dominance. It is from this understanding that the PUA movement arises, populated by boys and men who feel worthless because they don't have sex. Their anger is directed at the women -- the "prizes" -- who refuse to "give" them what they feel they deserve. So where do we go from here? Although it brought to light the various struggles of women across the country, #YesAllWomen is, ultimately, just a hashtag. It will stop trending. When it does, let's continue the conversation outside the realm of social media. Tuesday afternoon, I will join the rest of the UCSB community at a memorial service for Rodger's victims. As we mourn Katherine Cooper, Christopher Martinez, Veronika Weiss, Weihan Wang, George Chen, and Cheng Yuan Hong, conversations will focus on their lives, personalities, and accomplishments. But as we move forward and try to make sense of what happened, it's our responsibility to start productive, respectful conversations about the misogyny behind Rodger's actions. Instead of avoiding talking about sex, let's start age-appropriate conversations with our children about consent and respect. Let's speak up when a man in our group of friends speaks disrespectfully about a woman he's had sex with. And most important, let's analyze our own assumptions about what sex means with regard to different genders. Most men are not killers like Elliot Rodger. Most men don't sympathize with his motives. But all of us, regardless of gender, can contribute to changing the misogynist culture that inspired him. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/opinion/ghitis-isla-vista-killing/index.html	opinion	Opinion: After Isla Vista massacre, NRA, let's talk - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:57:07 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review. A former CNN producer and correspondent, she is the author of "The End of Revolution: A Changing World in the Age of Live Television." Follow her on Twitter @FridaGhitis. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- How is it possible that America has not managed to come together and build an effective response to gun massacres? How can that be? If another country had sent a killer who massacred people at random in the streets of an American city, Congress would have rushed to emergency session and the public would have thrown its support behind forceful action. Politicians, news media, community groups, everyone would be working in solidarity to combat the evil facing the nation. Just imagine if it happened again and again. In Isla Vista, California, a mass killing has shaken the nation. But every time we hear of another gunman's rampage, Americans go straight into their comfort zone. For a few days, advocates of gun rights stiffen their spines and vehemently defend their turf. On the other side, gun control advocates brandish their arguments while relatives of the latest victims cry out in pain and despair. The discussion combusts and burns itself off with the usual ingredients: Is the problem too many guns? Is it mental health? Is it guns in the hands of the wrong people? Yes, yes, yes to all of the above. Each killing spree triggers other discussions. Is it hatred for women, a breakdown of societal norms, too many video games, violence in movies? By all means we should study, debate and analyze the many factors that contribute to violence. But first, it's time to take the urgent action needed to stanch the bleeding, to at least slow the hemorrhage. Opinion: I'm a gun owner and I want gun control How can a country become accustomed to the idea that children may go to school one morning and never come home? It happens over and over and over again. How can it become routine that anyone, anywhere, for no reason at all, can get killed by a mentally disturbed person? At times, the entire country's response to the endless stream of killings resembles the embarrassing stagnation of politicians in Washington. Each side self-righteously preaches, firing up its own supporters, and nothing changes. Politicians, by the way, have become useless in tackling the crisis. Talking about guns is too risky. In 1999, when two killers massacred more than a dozen, mostly teenagers, at Columbine High School, the entire world was in shock. Since then, the shootings have kept coming. At Virginia Tech campus, 32 people were killed. In Aurora, Colorado, 12 people were shot dead, 70 were injured. At Sandy Hook Elementary School, 20 children and six staff members were killed. At a parking lot in Tuscon, Arizona, a congresswoman was shot in the head. Luckily, she survived, but others nearby were killed. There are two common denominators: guns and mental illness. Can Americans set aside their differences and try to work out an agreement that will address this crisis? Can the two sides recognize the sorrow and pain that are spreading as they shout past one another? Gun enthusiasts don't support mass murder. Nobody does. That's the fundamental common ground. Can we have a moment to set aside strategic long-term political objectives -- just a brief interlude -- and work together to try to prevent more people with mental illness from arming themselves and killing the innocent? Here's what I suggest. Might the NRA, with all its political power, announce it is willing to speak with mental health specialists, law enforcement officials and gun control advocates to focus sharply on just this issue? Hold a summit, form a high-level committee, take the first step on the road to a solution. Consider a few recent killing sprees. The Sandy Hook killer had serious mental health issues. The man who shot Rep. Gabby Giffords had dropped out of school after his college required a mental health evaluation. The Virginia Tech killer had been investigated by the university for stalking and had been declared mentally ill by a Virginia special justice. The Isla Vista shooter also had a history of mental illness. Like many others mass shooters, he had given clear signs that he was extremely dangerous, planning to kill. He had had several encounters with police. His family had alerted the police to the danger. Still, like all the other mass shooters before him, he was able to build an arsenal as he planned his rampage. Things must change. The threshold for taking someone against their will for psychiatric evaluation needs to be lowered. Police need better mental health training. It must become easier to intervene when there are risks. Importantly, people who have mental illnesses that put them at risk of violence should be blocked from owning weapons. Does anyone, even the most avid hunter, the most passionate gun enthusiast, think mentally ill people should be allowed to own semi-automatic weapons, or any weapons at all, for that matter? Opinion: Let teens talk about mental illness Beyond the area of mental health, there is much to be debated about whether a free society requires that its citizens be allowed to arm themselves so thoroughly, and whether an armed population makes for more or less crime. The United States can learn from the experience of other countries where people maintain wide-ranging rights to carry weapons, but have taken measures that effectively brought an end to gun massacres. Everyone is at risk now, people in every ZIP code, in every income level, of every race. A loved one could die in a random shooting out on the street or in a temple or a movie theater; in a country club, or on a college campus. No one can honestly deny that it is a real crisis. America can take steps to start fixing this problem. Gun lovers and gun control advocates can come together and craft a solution. Show Washington that it can be done. Show the world that America has the power to solve an urgent problem. Follow @CNNOpinion on Twitter. Join us at Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/politics/phoenix-va-hospital/index.html	politics	Troubling report issued on VA; McCain says Shinseki should go - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 01:17:08 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- An initial review has found "serious" problems at the Veterans Affairs medical facility in Phoenix, with patients at risk of being "forgotten or lost" in a maze of convoluted scheduling practices. A preliminary report by the agency's inspector general documented multiple unofficial wait lists of veterans seeking care and 1,700 veterans not on any list but also waiting to be seen. The report also found "numerous allegations" of "daily of mismanagement, inappropriate hiring decisions, sexual harassment, and bullying behavior by mid- and senior-level managers." More broadly, the report submitted to senior agency officials and to Congress also found that "inappropriate scheduling practices are systematic" throughout VA health services. The report did not offer any conclusions on whether delays in scheduling in Phoenix affected care or whether problematic scheduling has been corrected at other facilities. Overall, there are 26 VA medical centers under investigation. The VA is under fire over allegations of alarming shortcomings at its medical facilities. The controversy, as CNN first reported, involves of delayed care with potential fatal consequences in possibly dozens of cases. CNN has reported that in Phoenix, the VA used fraudulent record-keeping -- including an alleged secret list -- that covered up excessive waiting periods for veterans, some of whom died in the process. Sen. John McCain, an Arizona Republican, told CNN's Wolf Blitzer that inspector general Richard Griffin's initial findings were terrible and said it was "about time" the Justice Department launched its own investigation. He also said embattled VA Secretary Eric Shinseki should probably resign, which the Cabinet officer has said he has no plans to do. "I haven't said this before, but I think it's time for Gen. Shinseki to move on," McCain said. There have been calls from other members of Congress for him to step down over the scandal, but McCain's voice on military matters carries enormous weight considering his experience as a combat veteran, a Vietnam prisoner of war, and his work in the Senate on related issues. President Barack Obama said last week he needed more time to assemble the facts and promised accountability if problems were found. For now, he's sticking with Shinseki. The VA has acknowledged 23 deaths nationwide due to delayed care. Griffin told a Senate committee in recent weeks that his investigation so far had found a possible 17 deaths of veterans waiting for care in Phoenix, but he added that there was no evidence that excessive waiting was the reason. The report comes hours before a House committee hearing on the Phoenix VA issues. Griffin recommended that Shinseki "take immediate action" to "review and provide appropriate health care" to the 1,700 veterans identified in Phoenix as not being on a wait list. It also recommended that he initiate a nationwide review of waiting lists "to ensure that veterans are seen in an appropriate time, given their clinical condition." VA pledges faster appointments The VA's troubled history  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/politics/va-scandal-military-health-system-review/index.html	politics	VA pledges faster appointments as Hagel orders military health review - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 09:58:49 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel ordered a comprehensive review of the military health care system on Tuesday in the wake of the growing VA scandal. Hagel's move comes the same day the Department of Veteran Affairs announced veterans waiting for appointments for more than 30 days at VA hospitals and clinics will have an opportunity to see a doctor sooner. Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. John Kirby told CNN that Hagel had been considering the review for some time but decided to act now as he saw the VA scandal, first uncovered by CNN, unfold. The review, which is expected to last for 90 days, will focus on three areas: access to care, hospital safety and quality of care. Meanwhile, amid heavy pressure to address allegations of scheduling tricks and secrets lists to hide monthslong waits for care, the VA released details of its "Accelerated Access to Care Initiative." Those accusations have mushroomed since CNN first reported the problem in November in a detailed investigation examining several VA hospitals, reports that prompted President Barack Obama and lawmakers to call for investigations. Part of the initiative, which the VA says was implemented on May 23, calls for all veterans waiting more than 30 days for an appointment to be contacted by the VA to determine whether they want to be seen by a doctor sooner. According to the initiative, the VA will make at minimum three attempts to contact each veteran. If the veteran wants to see a doctor sooner, "and the capacity and resources exist -- (following the facility assessment), the veteran will be scheduled into new appointment openings," according to a fact sheet provided by the VA. If a facility can't handle all of the patients, "non-VA medical care referral will begin," it said. Under the initiative, reviews have been ordered of each VA facility to determine whether it can handle its current patient load. This includes examining whether VA clinics need to extend hours or approve overtime so more veterans can be seen. The reviews are expected to be completed by Friday, according the VA. Obama has promised to hold accountable anyone found to have manipulated or falsified records. The most disturbing problems emerged at the Phoenix VA, with sources revealing details of a secret waiting list. According to the sources, at least 40 American veterans died while waiting for care at the VA there. The top officials at the Phoenix VA denied any existence of a secret waiting list after CNN's initial Phoenix report went out. A fatal wait: Veterans languish and die on a VA hospital's secret list The director of the Phoenix Veterans Affairs Health Care system and two others were placed on administrative leave after the allegations made headlines and raised ire in Washington. The allegations have been followed by news of investigations at more than two dozen facilities across the nation. Timeline: VA's troubled history CNN's Dana Ford contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/canada-kidnapped-baby-facebook/index.html	world	Kidnapped newborn baby found 'thanks to Facebook' - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 08:50:39 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The woman wore a nurse's uniform when she walked into the maternity ward. She left the hospital driving away in a red car with a sign that said "Baby on Board." Police say there was a baby inside the Toyota Yaris the 21-year-old was driving Monday evening as she left the hospital in Trois-Rivires, Quebec. But the little girl wasn't hers. At the hospital, baby Victoria's parents were frantic. Their child was only 16 hours old when she was abducted, mother Mlissa McMahon said in a Facebook post describing the ordeal. "The worst case scenarios played out over and over in our heads," she wrote. "Unfortunately, the endings are not often happy, above all in this type of case." But just a few hours after the baby went missing, authorities returned her to her parents. Thanks to "four marvelous people," McMahon wrote, and "thanks to Facebook." "It is the only reason that explains why Victoria is in my arms at this time," she said. Amber Alert goes viral Publicity about Victoria's disappearance started with an Amber Alert sent out by Quebec police. In social media posts, messages from police described the vehicle and the woman driving it. The newborn, police said, was wrapped in a blue blanket. It wasn't long before the alert and a photo went viral. A group of four friends spotted it on Facebook when they were hanging out on Monday night, Canadian media reported. "We just wanted to do something for the night, so we went out to find the car," Charlne Plante told Canada's CTV network When police released a photo of a woman wearing scrubs in the hospital, Plante said she immediately recognized her former neighbor. The friends drove to the woman's apartment and saw the car parked outside. "The patio door was open. The lights were on," Mlizanne Bergeron told Canadian public broadcaster CBC. "It was clear that she was there." Then, they called police. Officers were there within minutes, Plante said, kicking down the apartment door. The baby was recovered and a woman was taken into custody. "After the baby was in the hands of the police, it was the best moment in my life," Bergeron told CTV. "We were crying." On Facebook, she posted a video showing her tearful friends as a police officer appeared in the apartment building's stairwell, the baby safe in his arms. Woman in custody Quebec police spokeswoman Christine Coulombe wouldn't confirm details about how the baby was found, but she said police received tips from the public after publicizing the case on social media. The woman was hospitalized for evaluation and was on 24-hour police watch, but she had not met yet with investigators Tuesday, Coulombe said. It is not known whether there was any previous link between the woman and the baby's family, she said. In a statement, the hospital from where the baby was taken thanked police investigators and said a team of risk-assessment experts would be analyzing the circumstances surrounding the incident and making recommendations about whether any changes are needed. Details from the police investigation will also be part of that analysis, the hospital said. "At this time, it is difficult to discuss in more detail the situation without revealing specific elements that could harm the investigation and court proceedings," the Center for Health and Social Services of Trois-Rivires said in a statement. "The establishment will therefore be reserved in public statements in the coming days." Daniel Cossette, the baby's uncle, told CTV that he spoke with the woman in the nurse's uniform as she walked down the hospital hallway with the newborn in her arms. She told him she was taking the baby for routine tests. "She had the attitude, the uniform, all of it," he said, "and we never presumed she was a kidnapper." 'Every click, every share made the difference' As authorities continue investigating, the baby's mother says she has no doubt about how Victoria ended up in her arms again. Alert hospital staff realized quickly that the baby had been taken, she said. Fellow patients at the hospital provided details about the woman and her vehicle. Security guards tracked down a photo of the woman with help from police. And investigators sent out the Amber Alert and image very quickly. "The photo saved our daughter! In less than an hour, the photo was everywhere...You were more than thousands of people who shared the photo of this woman on social media. ... Know that it was this that saved her, our little Victoria. Every click, every share made the difference," McMahon wrote in a message thanking people for their support. But along with her thank-you message, she also sent a word of caution to other mothers, saying that her experience with the woman dressed as a nurse should be a warning. "Never allow yourself to be influenced by a uniform....I know that it can seem trivial, but if I had been more skeptical, all of this could have been avoided....Verify the badge of the nurse...ask questions...it is your child, don't let them out of your sight," she wrote. "I would not like anyone else to live this." She did not describe further details about any interaction with the woman. As for her baby, McMahon said "little Victoria wears her name well for this victory." "To give life to our child is an incredible moment," she wrote, "but finding our child safe and sound is an indescribable feeling." Her post had been shared more than 18,000 times on Facebook by Tuesday night. How to guard against baby snatchers Woman who kidnapped baby 25 years ago sentenced to 12 years in prison  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/13/living/levar-burton-reading-rainbow-app/index.html	living	LeVar Burton launches 'Reading Rainbow' Kickstarter - CNN.com	2014/05/13	Tuesday May 13 12:54:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- "Reading Rainbow" made its TV debut in 1983 with a simple idea: Use television to keep kids reading during summer by urging them to "take a look" in a book. The popular public television show ended its run in 2009, but host and actor LeVar Burton hasn't stepped away from children's literacy, or the ideas behind the beloved show. On Wednesday, Burton launched a $1 million Kickstarter campaign to raise money for a Web-based digital library of "Reading Rainbow" books and videos. Burton said the tool will allow more children and educators to access "Reading Rainbow" materials, beyond those using the popular "Reading Rainbow" mobile app. The campaign also is aiming to provide "Reading Rainbow" for free to disadvantaged classrooms. "If you are a reader, then you have the ability to educate yourself," Burton said. "When you have the ability to be a lifelong learner, there are no limits on what you can acquire in terms of knowledge and information. It represents the ultimate freedom of mankind." After all, what makes a good story hasn't changed much since "Reading Rainbow's" debut, Burton said. Technology has. Burton said he realized the power of TV as a medium for educating and informing viewers when he played Kunta Kinte on the "Roots" miniseries, based on Alex Haley's novel about slavery and African-American history. The story captured the nation as millions tuned in to watch the miniseries during the late 1970s. Decades later, after reading a book on an iPad for the first time, he saw the potential to create an interactive reading experience. Burton acquired the rights to the "Reading Rainbow" brand and created his company, RRKidz. He envisioned an app that could interact with the audience in ways the show never could. He launched the "Reading Rainbow" app in 2012, and in its first 18 months, users read 10 million books, making it the No. 1 free educational app in the iTunes store for two years. "I wanted to put in the hands of kids a library of books and videos, like the TV show did, all in the service of inspiring a love of literature and exploring the world -- connecting the real world to the literature that kids are reading," said Burton, who received the Impact Award for his efforts to instill "a lifelong love of reading in children" during Children's Book Week this month. Burton's efforts come at a time when researchers and educators are trying to figure out how to use technology to encourage reading. Since 1984, the proportion of adolescents who read for pleasure once a week or more has dropped from 81% to 76% among 9-year-olds, according to research released this week by advocacy group Common Sense Media. Among 13-year-olds, rates of reading for pleasure have dropped from 70% to 53%. Among 17-year-olds, the rate dropped from 64% to 40%. The proportion who say they "never" or "hardly ever" read has gone from 8% of 13-year-olds and 9% of 17-year-olds in 1984 to 22% and 27%, respectively. "E-reading has the potential to significantly change the nature of reading for children and families, but its impact is still unknown," said the Common Sense Media report "Children, Teens and Reading." On the TV show, Burton became a trusted friend to children, parents and educators, recommending a variety of books and taking viewers on book-related field trips. He invited kids to recommend books in a segment, using the famous line, "but you don't have to take my word for it." "The books were enhanced by the show and the show brought people to read the books," said Starr LaTronica, president of the Association for Library Service to Children. "It sort of lays the groundwork for research later in life because LeVar always took those books, found out something about them and went further." In the app incarnation of "Reading Rainbow," children navigate the app in a virtual hot air balloon, traveling to themed islands and discovering books they might like to read. The app hosts more than 500 books and video field trips with Burton. Users can interact with the stories like it's a game and receive rewards for each book they read. Parents are encouraged to use the app along with their children, filling in youngsters' interests for reading recommendations or exploring lessons and themes within the books together. Kids can read by themselves, with their parents or have Burton narrate. The app is free to download, with a $9.99 monthly or $29.99 six-month fee for accessing and downloading unlimited books to read. "Elementary school-age children are at a juncture where you have such a great opportunity to capture them as readers at that point," said Nicole Deming of the Children's Book Council. "The app has struck that ideal balance between enhancing the storytelling without being distracting." Burton said he hopes the web-based version of "Reading Rainbow" will be tailored to classroom teachers and homeschoolers. It will include lesson plans and tools to track students' reading progress. Burton said he also would like to see more diversity in children's literature. "Reading Rainbow" will continue to share a variety of books, just as he did on the show, he said. "I firmly believe that seeing oneself reflected in the popular culture is critically important for developing a solid and healthy sense of self," he said. "Unless the publishing industry is proactive, this will be one of the causes of its demise. I don't understand the reluctance. Here is a sector that is woefully underserved, with an opportunity to target a market that is thirsty for literature." Still, not everything has changed. Just as Burton's mother nurtured his interest in reading, parents and children can bond through books, whether on paper or tablets. "There is nothing more powerful to me than that elemental experience of storytelling: being read to aloud, following along, seeing the story in the pictures and feeling it in your heart," Burton said. "It is really beautifully, brilliantly embodied in the sharing of a children's book." What were your favorite books as a young reader? Share your memories in the comments, on Twitter @CNNschools or on CNN Living's Facebook page. CNN's Jamie Gumbrecht contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/mexico-marine/index.html	us	U.S. Marine held in Mexico prison scheduled for court Wednesday - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 10:58:30 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A U.S. Marine and Afghanistan war veteran held in a Mexico prison for nearly two months will make appearance in court Wednesday, his mother told CNN's "New Day." Jill Tahmooressi said her son, Marine Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi, accidentally crossed into Mexico with three personal firearms -- all bought legally in the U.S. The 25-year-old had intended to drive to meet friends in San Ysidro, California, on March 31, and was moving from Florida to California in the hope of settling, getting a job and continuing treatment he had just begun for post traumatic stress related to his two combat tours. With all his possessions in his truck, Tahmooressi drove across the border. When he realized his mistake, his mother said, he dialed 911 and asked the operator to help him. No help came, Jill Tahmooressi said. Her son first encountered Mexican customs agents, she said, and he believed they understood that he'd made an innocent error. They seemed to be getting an escort car to help him, she said. But the officers with the Mexican military interfered, she told "New Day," and her son was arrested. "He is relieved that he'll be able to go before the judge and explain precisely how he made that accidental wrong turn and ended up in the dilemma that he's in right now," she said. Andrew Tahmooressi was initially held at La Mesa penitentiary in Tijuana, Mexico, facing a weapons charge, according to the Mexican attorney general's office. In early May, the office told CNN that the Marine's scheduled court date was Wednesday. Twenty-one days ago he was moved from La Mesa to El Tongo prison in the state of Baja California, Jill Tahmooressi said. He is being held is isolation -- away from the general population of the lock-up -- and is constantly watched by a guard, she said. The Marine has tried to appeal to U.S. lawmakers. "I accidentally drove into Mexico with 3 guns ... a rifle (AR-15), a .45 cal pistol and a 12 gauge pump shotgun with no intensions (sic) on being in Mexico or being involved in any criminal activities," Andrew Tahmooressi wrote in a statement of innocence to U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-California, who sits on the House Armed Services Committee. "I have rights to all 3 weapons," he wrote. "They are under my name. ... Please help me." Hunter is among several lawmakers who have petitioned for Tahmooressi's release. Also, in a bipartisan congressional letter addressed to Mexico's attorney general on May 8, Hunter wrote: "Mexico's Attorney General is in a position to deal with Andrew's case and ensure its quick resolution. ... It is necessary that the AG intervene and expedite proceedings at the very least. And so far there's been no validation from Mexico that Andrew didn't make a directional mistake at the border." U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said he spoke with Mexican authorities last week about the case. "We are working on determining whether or not certain evidence that has been presented is meeting the standard that's necessary to be able to hold that young Marine, and we're trying to find out exactly what the fact pattern is, but we are working on that," he told Jake Tapper on CNN's "New Day"  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/health/return-white-plague-incurable-tb/index.html	health	Return of the 'White Plague': Fears over the rise of 'incurable' TB - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:17:06 EDT 2014	Vital Signs is a monthly program bringing viewers health stories from around the world. (CNN) -- "Sometimes I ask myself, why me? Why did this have to happen again?" says 31-year-old Andile from the Khayelitsha township in Cape Town, South Africa. "But the problem is I could have got it anywhere, on the bus, in a taxi, in my work. It's everywhere." Andile has extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB), a form of the airborne disease that is resistant to the four main groups of drugs used to treat it, meaning treatment can take years and requires alternative drugs that have more side effects. He's had tuberculosis for more than two years but it's not the first time he's been infected. "Where I stay, the environment is not right, it's not clean. I could have got TB there, or on the taxis we use as they never open the windows," he says. TB has long been known as a disease of poverty. Dense housing, shared living space, poor ventilation, poor nutrition and poor healthcare systems are the prime conditions for the infection to spread, and thrive. This ancient disease was known as the "White Plague" in 18th century Europe and still kills more than one million people a year globally. It's a complicated disease with the potential to affect many parts of the body and it can remain latent in people for many years, leaving them unaware they are infected. The main active form of the disease affects the lungs; if left untreated it can cause considerable lung damage, resulting in eventual death. 'Public health emergency' After repeated exposure, Andile has extensive damage to his lungs, leaving him reliant on an oxygen tank as he receives his treatment from Medecin Sans Frontiers. The NGO plays a large role in treating TB in Khayelitsha, one of the largest townships in the country. Andile is one of thousands of people who contract the extensively drug-resistant form each year and he makes a crucial point -- TB is everywhere in South Africa and is the leading cause of death. It's estimated that up to 80% of drug-resistant forms of the disease are now transmitted directly between people, rather than developing over time. "The disease has reached a public health emergency in South Africa," explains Keertan Dheda, professor of medicine at the University of Cape Town. "We treat half a million cases a year and today, the epidemic has taken a turn with drug resistance. We treat 8,000 cases of resistance a year and now a chunk of those have developed resistance beyond XDR-TB -- incurable TB." Read: Hunting down 'fiery serpent' disease Looking at the disease globally, in 2013 there were 72 cases of drug-resistant TB in the United States. In 2012 there were 64,000 cases in India and 59,000 in China. The more people and the closer their proximity, the easier the disease spreads. Drug resistance can develop for a variety of reasons. For TB, the origins lie in incomplete treatment regimens where people did not complete their course of antibiotics due either to poor health systems or personal preference or complacency. Incomplete treatments mean the bacteria behind the disease -- Mycobacterium tuberculosis -- have had some, but not full, exposure to the drugs prescribed to kill them, giving them the opportunity to mutate and become resistant. The result today is such vast resistance that in some settings, all known drugs have been rendered useless and these forms are now transmitting between people. "We now have patients who are therapeutically destitute," explains Dheda. Global problem The problem is now global. XDR-TB has its highest prevalence in Russian, Eastern Europe, China and India, with the latter reporting cases of total drug resistance. But according to the 2013 Global TB report from the World Health Organization (WHO), this extensive form of resistant TB has been reported in 92 countries, and is likely to be in more. "It's probably in every country," says David Heymann, head of the Center on Global Health Security at think tank Chatham House and chair of the Health Protection Agency in the United Kingdom. "The disease has spread internationally and is a real concern." The 67th World Health Assembly took place last week and it approved a long-term global TB strategy, including targets to reduce TB deaths by 95% between 2015 and 2035. Also firmly on the agenda was the global concern of antibiotic resistance and the fear of many diseases becoming untreatable. The issue has been addressed by many public health organizations in 2014 and Heymann believes TB is a prime example of the problem and should be declared a public health emergency of international concern by the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee. But such a declaration is yet to be made. Read: This machine makes drinking water from thin air The man in charge of the controlling the problem globally is Mario Raviglione, director of the Global Tuberculosis Program at the WHO. "TB is competing with HIV/AIDS as the number one killer among the infectious diseases," explains Raviglione. "There are about 450,000 new drug-resistant TB cases every year and this is the scariest part of tuberculosis as you are left with less options to treat people, many of which are toxic." 'Extraordinary measures' Raviglione stresses that the epidemic may differ in different parts of the world but is very much an international issue. "Russia, India, China and South Africa have about 60% of the world cases, so if they don't improve there is no way the world can progress," he says. Raviglione is especially concerned about the increased rates of drug-resistant TB seen in Southern Africa. "This scares us most because in that part of the world there is a lot of HIV and so it can become explosive and really spread and move fast as HIV amplifies the effect of tuberculosis." The ability of HIV to suppress human immune systems enables TB bacteria to take over the body. The WHO strategy therefore is to target high-burden countries and improve the diagnosis and treatment of drug-resistant TB. Because patients must take drugs for at least two years, getting them to stick with the treatment is essential, and transmission must also be controlled. Not a simple feat. "This threat has to be prevented and when it does occur, extraordinary measures must be put in place to diagnose and treat to stop it spreading to others," states Raviglione. "It's a real threat and has to be taken extremely seriously." Read: Man cuts off fingers, makes new ones Read: From toilet to tap -- drinking recycled waste water This story was partly supported by the Pulitzer Center on crisis reporting 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/asia/malaysia-missing-plane/index.html	world	Underwater search for MH370 postponed for at least 2 months - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 05:03:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- After two grueling months with no word from their loved ones, relatives of those on Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 will have to wait two more months before the search resumes underwater. The Bluefin-21 drone is completing its final mission in the Indian Ocean on Wednesday, marking the end of the underwater hunt -- for now. With no tangible evidence found by the drone, which costs an estimated $40,000 a day to operate, search officials are regrouping and preparing to deploy more high-tech equipment. Only a handful of companies have such devices, which will likely include towed sonar, an autonomous underwater vehicle with mounted sonar and optical imaging equipment, Australian officials said. Soliciting those companies and negotiating contracts will take time, and officials have said they want a single private contractor to lead the next stage of the search. That phase, which aims to scour 60,000 square kilometers, probably won't start for at least two months. The cost? About $60 million. Uncharted territory In the meantime, China is using a specialized ship to map the ocean floor in a remote part of the Indian Ocean -- something that's never been done before. While the Bluefin-21 can provide greater resolution than deep-towed sonar devices, the drone could only go about 4.5 kilometers deep. It's unclear how deep the water is in the expanded search area because "it's never been mapped," Australian Deputy Prime Minister Warren Truss said earlier this month. China's Zhu Kezhen ship will be joined by a contracted commercial survey vessel in June, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said. While 26 countries have participated in the hunt for the missing plane, Malaysia, China and Australia have held high-level talks about the future of the search. Malaysia is where the the plane is from, China had more than 100 passengers on board, and Australia had six passengers on board and is close to the stretch of the Indian Ocean where searchers have focused their hunt. Australia has estimated the next phase of the search will cost $60 million, with the breakdown of exactly who's going to pay for what yet to be determined. Satellite data released  With the underwater search on hiatus, analysts are combing through a 47-page document containing hundreds of lines of communication logs between the plane and the British company Inmarsat's satellite system. Relatives of passengers have been clamoring for the release of satellite data for months. It was the satellite data, along with other information, that led officials to zero in on a search area in the southern Indian ocean. And some families suspect officials may be searching in the wrong spot. But the document released Tuesday doesn't provide the whole picture. It's "intended to provide a readable summary of the data communication logs," notes at the beginning of the document say. Some passengers' families, unsatisfied by the official explanation of the plane's fate, say they want an independent analysis of the complex information -- a process that could take weeks. CNN safety analyst David Soucie said certain key elements, which would allow independent experts to fully test the official conclusion, are missing from the data in the document. "There's not enough information to say whether they made an error," he said. "I think we're still going to be looking for more." Inmarsat CEO Rupert Pearce acknowledged Tuesday that the company didn't release the model to which it applied the data to estimate the plane's path -- and said the decision on whether to release the model lies with the Malaysian government, which is leading the search. "We'd be perfectly happy to put that model out," Pearce told CNN's "New Day." But Pearce also said the publicized data, along with engine and radar data, are enough for experienced third parties to plug into their own models and reach their own conclusions. Sarah Bajc, whose partner, Philip Wood, was on the missing jet, said she was "annoyed" that Inmarsat and Malaysian authorities hadn't released everything they used to reach their conclusions. "I see no reason for them to have massaged this before giving it to us," she said. Regardless of what information has been released, two pressing questions remain -- where is the plane, and what went wrong? Is Inmarsat right? Did Inmarsat data point Flight 370 searchers in wrong direction? CNN's Saima Mohsin, Jethro Mullen, Mitra Mobasherat and Catherine Shoichet contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/living/california-killer-hashtag-yesallwomen/index.html	living	Killer Elliot Rodger's rants inspired #YesAllWomen tweets - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 12:18:13 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- No, not all men channel frustration over romantic rejection into a killing spree. But yes, all women experience harassment, discrimination or worse at some point in their lives. That's the message at the core of an ongoing Twitter conversation that emerged after a rampage last week that left six students from the University of California, Santa Barbara, dead and wounded 13 others. Elliot Rodger, who apparently shot and killed himself, left behind a robust digital footprint detailing his plan to "destroy everything I cannot have," blaming the "cruelness of women" for leading to his "day of retribution." His comments inspired Twitter users to tweet the hashtag #YesAllWomen: They shared examples of what "women must fear" even if "not all men" engage in those behaviors, according to the person believed to have created the hashtag Saturday. The person did not respond to CNN's request for comment. #notallmen practice violence against women but #YesAllWomen live with the threat of male violence. Every. Single. Day. All over the world. The hashtag -- a response to the "not all men" defense sometimes used to deflect feminist arguments -- spread quickly on Twitter, zeroing in on the subtle and explicit signals that a woman's worth is based on her availability to men. By Tuesday morning, #YesAllWomen had been tweeted more than 1 million times. Because I now wear shorts under dresses in crowded bars after being groped and even penetrated by unseen hands. #YesAllWomen Because calling me "Darlin' " in our first business meeting is "okay" because you're from the South. #YesAllWomen #YesAllWomen b/c not returning someone's feelings, or as society calls it putting them in the "friend zone", should not make me feel guilty Expanding the conversation #YesAllWomen is the latest Twitter hashtag to draw attention to violence against women in a global conversation that has spread from social media to college campuses and into the White House. While most feminist-driven Twitter campaigns preach to the choir, #YesAllWomen has succeeded in drawing the mainstream -- including men -- into the conversation, feminist writer and political analyst Zerlina Maxwell said. More unique is the conversation's focus on misogyny and its negative impact on women and men, Maxwell said, pointing to tweets from men as evidence. Don't hate the #yesallwomen hashtag. Hate that it has to even exist. Hate the injustice of gender inequality. Hate violence against women. There was backlash to the hashtag's sentiment, too. Some challenged the idea that misogyny was behind Rodger's killing spree, while others argued against the broader idea that most women face gender-based harassment. But those tweeting #YesAllWomen interpreted backlash as evidence to prove their points. Sigh. Because I'm still having to use the block button for hateful messages. #YesAllWomen #YesAllWomen's forebears include #everydaysexism, which evolved from the website Everyday Sexism. In 2011, the site launched as a place for people to share stories of gender-based harassment. Today, #everdaysexism exists as a continuous feed of examples of street harassment, and as an occasional rallying cry around petitions. It has been tweeted more than 520,000 times in the past year, according to social Web search engine Topsy. Earlier this year, Maxwell started #rapecultureiswhen in response to a Time.com op-ed calling for an end to "rape culture hysteria." The hashtag highlighted examples of victim blaming and was tweeted more than 67,000 times. With more than 1.2 million tweets so far, #YesAllWomen has far outpaced both hashtags, according to Topsy. It has drawn comments from celebrities such as Kerry Washington, Neil Gaiman and Patton Oswalt. Celebrity boost aside, #YesAllWomen's universal appeal springs from "bottom-up" personal stories instead of a single omniscient voice in an op-ed, Maxwell said. "It's not somebody on high saying this is a problem in society and everyone should fix it," she said. "It's people talking about real experiences, and each experience is validated by the next." More than Internet slacktivism Even though #YesAllWomen grew as a counterpoint to the "not all men" argument, it's effective because it stands on its own, feminist media critic Rachel Sklar said. In fact, Rodger's killing spree shows that men can also be victims of hostility toward women: Four men were among those killed, including his two roommates, "the biggest nerds I had ever seen," Rodger said. Rodger left behind a 137-page "manifesto" in which he wrote, "I've wanted love, affection, adoration. You think I'm unworthy of it. That's a crime that can never be forgiven." "I don't know what you don't see in me. I'm the perfect guy and yet you throw yourselves at these obnoxious men instead of me, the supreme gentleman," Rodger said in a YouTube video posted the day of the killings. Sklar said his words echoed sentiments voiced by men's rights activists in online forums and social media platforms, especially Twitter. Those murmurs rarely turn deadly, she said, but Rodger's actions represent every woman's worst fears. "It's been a collective trigger for women. It's an extreme case of something we see and experience regularly as part of our lives, but it's shocking and jarring and scary to see it taken to these lengths," said Sklar, who founded the women's network TheLi.st. Despite its grim origins, #YesAllWomen advanced conversation around issues that dominate feminist circles, feminist writer Soraya Chemaly said. The hashtag sparked more discussion about rape in India and Africa, and college campus sex assault in the United States. The hashtag also forced discussion of the intersection of mental illness and misogyny in violence against women, especially in mass shootings, which are overwhelmingly perpetrated by white men. "I don't know how anyone can look at this information and not see how densely matrixed all these factors and events are," Chemaly said. "We keep seeing this pattern repeated and people seem to think misogyny or mental illness are exclusive or need to be prioritized." While there's no tangible outcome to the hashtag's spread, those involved said it's far from the typical slacktivism. It created a virtual space for women to share their stories, Chemaly said. "While there's a lot of harm that can happen online, the Internet (has been) so fundamentally transformative for women and feminists," she said. "Women who were isolated in their experiences by culture and their families for the first time can exceed those boundaries."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/us/nba-clippers-sterling/index.html	us	Source: Shelly Sterling 'moving quickly' to sell L.A. Clippers - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 11:50:19 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Los Angeles Clippers co-owner Shelly Sterling is "moving quickly" to sell the embattled NBA franchise, with a source familiar with the situation saying she and her representatives would like to make a deal this week. The recent activity includes talks with several high-profile potential suitors for the team, and NBA Commissioner Adam Silver is "very much involved" in Shelly Sterling's dealings with potential buyers, according to the source. But as bidders make their pitches for his team, Donald Sterling -- Shelly's estranged husband and the team's other owner -- accused the NBA of violating his constitutional rights in trying to end his ownership of the franchise based on what he says was an illegally recorded conversation during a lovers' quarrel, according to a document provided by Donald Sterling's attorney. The document, Sterling's 26-page response to charges of violating the league's bylaws, adhered to the NBA's Tuesday deadline for the billionaire businessman's reply. The NBA has said the next step will be a special Board of Governors meeting on June 3, when the league's 30 ownership groups -- someone else will represent the Clippers -- will meet to hear evidence on Donald Sterling's behavior, then vote on terminating the Sterlings' ownership rights. Sterling has been prejudged and won't get a fair hearing, the document says, citing comments from 10 other teams. About one month ago, Silver banned Sterling from NBA facilities and functions and ordered him to pay a record fine after racist remarks by the Clippers' owner to former companion V. Stiviano surfaced online. A source close to the situation said roughly two weeks ago that Donald Sterling -- who repeatedly denied he's a racist in a CNN interview -- wouldn't pay the fine, would reject the ban and might sue the NBA. The document says Sterling faces a never-before-issued and unjust punishment. "In reality, Mr. Sterling is being banned for life, fined $2.5 million, and stripped of his ownership rights for a purely private conversation with his lover that he did not know was being recorded and that he never intended to see the light of day," the document says. Other NBA figures have made bigoted or racially insensitive remarks and weren't punished as harshly, Sterling argues. His remarks were made in the heat of an argument, and while they were not justified, they were not meant to harm the NBA, the response says. And while Sterling's remarks were viewed as racist, he says in his response that he was "instrumental in fostering the diverse body of players, coaches, general managers, employees and fans on which the NBA prides itself." The document also says Sterling was active in the African-American community and that there was only one court case -- which he won -- of discrimination brought against him as owner of the Clippers in more than 30 years. Sterling asks that the NBA's charges be denied and that his ownership rights not be terminated. The NBA acknowledged receiving a response from Sterling and reaffirmed the June 3 meeting, saying it will start at 1 p.m. ET to "hear and vote upon this matter." Donald Sterling's attorney, Maxwell Blecher, had no comment. Stiviano has said Sterling knew she was recording him and that the two were never intimate. CNN senior legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin said it appeared the Sterlings were taking a two-track strategy. By filing the document, Donald Sterling is protecting his legal options but, at the same time, he realizes selling the team is the most likely outcome. "I don't think it's a winning argument, but it is a very impressive document," Toobin said. Possible bidders CNN's source on the potential sale said it was a busy Memorial Day weekend for Shelly Sterling. The source indicated she met Sunday with a group led by former NBA star Grant Hill to discuss the sale of the Clippers. In addition, the source familiar with the situation said she met over the weekend at her Malibu, California, home with ex-Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, who made an aggressive offer for the franchise. Shelly Sterling is interested in fielding offers from billionaire businessman Patrick Soon-Shiong, Hill's group, entertainment mogul David Geffen and Oracle founder Larry Ellison, and entrepreneur Magic Johnson and his Guggenheim partners, who two years ago teamed up to buy baseball's Los Angeles Dodgers. Johnson has been at the center of the story from the outset because of controversial banter between 80-year-old Donald Sterling and Stiviano. After TMZ first reported those comments, Donald Sterling lashed out at Johnson in a CNN interview, questioning whether someone who contracted HIV should be considered a role model and asking rhetorically "what has he done" for the African-American community. Johnson called the whole situation sad in his own interview with CNN, in which he urged Sterling to sell the team. The former Los Angeles Laker said if that happens -- and if his Guggenheim partners are interested -- "We'll make a run for it." One person who apparently won't be the NBA franchise's next owner is media tycoon Oprah Winfrey. Despite much buzz in recent weeks, the source familiar with the situation says that Winfrey is "out of the running." The same source said Shelly Sterling will accept offers this week for the Clippers. Shelly Sterling's attorney, Pierce O'Donnell, said no formal offers have been made for the team, which has risen in recent years from a last-place laughingstock to a playoff team with two superstars in forward Blake Griffin and guard Chris Paul. "Shelly and the NBA are working cooperatively on the transaction," O'Donnell said. The Sterlings have been publicly defiant since the story broke, challenging the NBA and its right to force the Clippers' sale. But late last week, the Sterlings agreed that Shelly would try to sell the NBA franchise voluntarily even as the league prepares a vote on terminating their franchise rights. The couple own the team through a trust. Shelly Sterling previously had said she wanted to own at least part of the franchise, but doesn't want to be a controlling partner. But if it sold -- likely for between $1.5 billion and $2 billion, according to the well-placed source -- the NBA doesn't want either Sterling to have any ownership stake. Still, they could take solace in the dizzying profit they'd make from such a deal; Donald Sterling reportedly bought the franchise in 1981 for about $12 million. His response, though, laments that a forced sale would mean the Sterlings would incur "several hundred million dollars" in taxes they could avoid if they were allowed to keep the franchise and leave the team to their heirs. Sterling's wife, Shelly: We're just business partners CNN's Rosalina Nieves, Jill Martin and Michael Martinez contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/sport/tennis/serena-williams-french-open-tennis/index.html	iSport	Serena Williams crashes out of French Open, Venus defeated - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 08:52:44 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- It was deja vu for the Williams sisters at the French Open -- but not in a good way. A mouthwatering third-round clash between seven-time grand slam champion Venus and 17-time major winner Serena was ruled out when the former lost to unseeded Slovakian Anna Schmiedlova 2-6 6-3 6-4 in early play in Paris on Wednesday. Then hours later, Serena -- also the defending champion and world No. 1 -- fell to Spain's Garbine Muguruza 6-2 6-2, her worst ever grand slam performance. In 2008, the siblings were also defeated on the same day at Roland Garros, their least productive major. The last time it happened was at Wimbledon in 2011. Congrats 2 my opponent today. She did her thing. I'm proud of her. I wish her well. Until next time. There's always tomm & I will be ready. An 18th grand slam singles crown for Serena would have tied her with legends Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova but the younger of the tennis playing sisters has now been upset in consecutive majors. Venus has been hindered by debilitating autoimmune disease Sjogren's Syndrome in recent years though she looked solid in her first round match against the promising Swiss, Belinda Bencic. Novak Djokovic, the No. 2 seed from Serbia, breezed past France's Jeremy Chardy 6-1 6-4 6-2 in just over 90 minutes. Djokovic is looking for his first French Open title and will now face Crotia's Marin Cilic. Roger Federer, the 2009 champion, was also in cruise control as he dispatched Argentina's Diego Sebastian Schwartzman 6-3 6-4 6-4. The No. 4 seed will face Russia's Dmitry Tursunov in round three. Both players sympathized with Stan Wawrinka, the Australian Open champion who was knocked out in the opening round by Spanish outsider Guillermo Garcia-Lopez. "I understand what Wawrinka is going through. In 2008 when I won my first grand slam, I know how that period went after that," Djokovic told reporters. "It's the first time that you have to encounter pressure or expectations of being a favorite in grand slams." Federer also had some kind words for his compatriot, and said he was confident this would only prove a blip in his career. "With Stan, I understand where he is, because I was in such a position at a moment in my career, and it's not even the pressure itself. I think it's how you look at yourself and at your game," the Swiss told reporters. "Without changing everything, this is what he's got to work on and solve this, fix this. Little by little. It will not happen overnight. "But with Australia, with the Monte Carlo Masters, it's in his pocket already. Nobody can take this from him. It will give him time." Elsewhere on Wednesday, there were wins for the Czech No. 6 seed Tomas Berdych, Milos Raonic, seeded 8 from Canada, and France's No. 13 seed Jo Wilfried Tsonga. See also: Wawrinka sent packing in Paris See also: Does Paris need invincible Nadal?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/maya-angelou-obit/index.html	us	Legendary author Maya Angelou dies at age 86 - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 09:31:21 EDT 2014	Inspired by Maya Angelou? Read your favorite Angelou quote on video and send it to CNN iReport. (CNN) -- A literary voice revered globally for her poetic command and her commitment to civil rights has fallen silent. Maya Angelou died at her home in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, on Wednesday, said her literary agent, Helen Brann. The agent added that she has been "frail" and suffering from heart problems. The 86-year-old was a novelist, actress, professor, singer, dancer and activist. In 2010, President Barack Obama named her the recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the country's highest civilian honor. One of Angelou's most praised books was "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings." The memoir bore witness to the brutality of a Jim Crow South, portraying racism in stark language. Readers learned of the life of Marguerite Ann Johnson (Angelou's birth name) up to the age of 16: how she was abandoned by her parents and raped by her mother's boyfriend. She was homeless and became a teen mother. Its publication was both daring and historic given the era of its debut in 1969. "All of the writers of my generation must honor the ground broken by Dr. Maya Angelou," author Tayari Jones posted on her Facebook page Wednesday. "She told a story that wasn't allowed to be told," Jones said. "Now, people tell all sorts of things in memoir, but when she told the truth, she challenged a taboo -- not for shock value, but to heal us all." Black American novelist Julian Mayfield is said to have described the autobiography as "a work of art which eludes description." "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" was an international bestseller and nominated for a National Book Award in 1970. In six other autobiographical books she subsequently penned, Angelou revealed myriad interests and occupations of her life. People of all ages and backgrounds took to social media to say what her life's work meant to them. Adrian Sean of Detroit posted a CNN iReport tribute, saying, "I cannot describe the feeling I had when I read 'I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings' for the first time, and knew someone else in the world had been through extreme hardships just as I had. "She not only survived, but she thrived just by being herself," she said. "Maya Angelou was and still is a teacher, a mentor, and a friend to me. Her impact on my life will always have a special place in my heart." From a dropout to Dr. Angelou Angelou spent her early years studying dance and drama in San Francisco but dropped out of school at age 14. When she was 16, Angelou became San Francisco's first female streetcar driver. Angelou later returned to high school to get her diploma. She gave birth a few weeks after graduation. While the 17-year-old single mother waited tables to support her son, she developed a passion for music and dance, and toured Europe in the mid-1950s in the opera production "Porgy and Bess." In 1957, she recorded her first album, "Miss Calypso." In 1958, Angelou become a part of the Harlem Writers Guild in New York and played a queen in "The Blacks," an off-Broadway production by French dramatist Jean Genet. "I created myself," Angelou once said. "I have taught myself so much." Affectionately referred to as Dr. Angelou, 6-foot-tall professor never went to college. She has more than 30 honorary degrees and taught American studies for years at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem. "Maya Angelou has been a towering figure -- at Wake Forest and in American culture. She had a profound influence in civil rights and racial reconciliation," Wake Forest University President Nathan O. Hatch said Wednesday. "We will miss profoundly her lyrical voice and always keen insights." Angelou spoke at least six languages and worked as a newspaper editor in Egypt and Ghana. It was during that time that she wrote "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings," the first in a series of autobiographical books. "I want to write so well that a person is 30 or 40 pages in a book of mine ... before she realizes she's reading," Angelou said. Poetry after childhood tragedy Angelou was born April 4, 1928, in St. Louis. She grew up between St. Louis and the then-racially segregated town of Stamps, Arkansas. The famous poet got into writing after a childhood tragedy that stunned her into silence for years. When she was 7, her mother's boyfriend raped her. He was beaten to death by a mob after she testified against him. "My 7-and-a-half-year-old logic deduced that my voice had killed him, so I stopped speaking for almost six years," she said. From the silence, a louder voice was born. In her poem "Caged Bird," Angelou wrote: "A free bird leaps on the back of the wind and floats downstream till the current ends and dips his wing in the orange sun rays and dares to claim the sky. But a bird that stalks down his narrow cage can seldom see through his bars of rage his wings are clipped and his feet are tied so he opens his throat to sing." Surrounded by greats Angelou's list of friends is as impressive as her illustrious career. Talk show queen Oprah Winfrey referred to her as "sister friend." She counted Rosa Parks, Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr., with whom she worked during the civil rights movement, among her friends. King was assassinated on her birthday. In an interview with CNN in January 2009, just days before President Obama was inaugurated for his first term, she gave her thoughts about the United States' election of its first black president. "It was as if someone in the outer sphere said, 'What can we do to really show how important Martin Luther King was?'" Seeing Obama about to take office made her feel proud, she said. "I'm excited. I'm hopeful. I'm talking all the time to people, and sometimes I've really said it so many times I wonder if I'm coming off like a piece of tape recording, but I'm very proud to be an American. "In 30 or 40 years, (the election) will not be considered so incredibly important. ... There will be other people in those next three or four decades who will run for the presidency -- some women, some native American, some Spanish-speaking, some Asian. We're about to grow up in this country." Obama remembered Angelou on Wednesday, saying she was "one of the brightest lights of our time -- a brilliant writer, a fierce friend, and a truly phenomenal woman." He noted that she expressed her talents in many ways, but "above all, she was a storyteller" and "her greatest stories were true." The president said his own mother was so inspired by Angelou that she named his sister Maya. In Los Angeles, iconic music producer Quincy Jones said he was saddened to have lost a "dear friend, colleague and sister." The two collaborated on two songs on Jones' soundtrack for "For Love of Ivy" in 1968, he said, and working with her always "brought joy and love." A poem before Clinton's inauguration Author Tananarive Due, the Cosby Endowed Chair for the Humanities at Spelman College in Atlanta, remembered Angelou's reading at President Bill Clinton's first inauguration in 1993. She was the first poet to do so since Robert Frost in 1961. More notably, she was the first black woman to have such a prominent role. The poem, "On the Pulse of Morning," celebrates diversity of all people in America. Again, Angelou was influencing popular culture. Her reading probably introduced a younger generation to her and her pivotal body of work. "I felt like I belonged in my own nation -- at last," recalled Due. "She had a tremendous gift for choosing the right language to give us peace and power." The poem reads in part: "A Rock, A River, A Tree Hosts to species long since departed, Marked the mastodon. The dinosaur, who left dry tokens Of their sojourn here On our planet floor, Any broad alarm of their hastening doom Is lost in the gloom of dust and ages. But today, the Rock cries out to us, clearly, forcefully, Come, you may stand upon my Back and face your distant destiny, But seek no haven in my shadow. I will give you no more hiding place down here." 'A long journey' In CNN's 2009 interview, Angelou spoke in the way that she came to be famous for, each sentence a crescendo of emotion, a call to everyone to act and to be better. "Our country needs us all right now to stand up and be counted. We need to try to be great citizens. We are necessary in this country, and we need to give something -- that is to say, go to a local hospital, go to the children's ward and offer to the nurse in charge an hour twice a month that you can give them reading children's stories or poetry," she said. "And go to an old folks' home and read the newspaper to somebody. Go to your church or your synagogue or your mosque, and say, 'I'd like to be of service. I have one hour twice a month.' "You'll be surprised at how much better you will feel," she said. "And good done anywhere is good done everywhere." Some of Angelou's most powerful speeches Angelou was also one of the first black female film directors. Her work on Broadway has been nominated for Tony Awards. "Look where we've all come from ... coming out of darkness, moving toward the light," she once said. "It is a long journey, but a sweet one, bittersweet." Angelou reads her poem 'And I Still Rise' 2013: Anderson Cooper's conversation with Angelou People we've lost in 2014 CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Todd Leopold and Marlena Baldacci contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/politics/obama-west-point-foreign-policy/index.html	politics	Obama outlines foreign policy vision of 'might and right' - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 12:12:52 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- President Barack Obama on Wednesday outlined a foreign policy vision of "might doing right," arguing that modern pragmatism requires both a strong military and the diplomatic tools of alliances and sanctions to exert influence and provide global leadership. He told graduating cadets at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point that after the nation's "long season of war and divisions about how to move forward," they now would represent America with the duty "not only to protect our country, but to do what is right and just." Under fire from the political right for what critics call diminishing U.S. global influence, Obama offered a robust defense of his foreign policy as the pragmatic and most effective expression of America's leadership role in the world. "I believe in American exceptionalism with every fiber of my being," he said, referring to a tenet of conservative ideology. "But what makes us exceptional is not flouting international norms and the rule of law; it's our willingness to affirm them through our actions," Obama said in arguing that true leadership involves not only having the world's most powerful military, but in doing the right thing. "America must always lead on the world stage," Obama said, and the military "always will be the backbone of that leadership," but U.S. military action "cannot be the only -- or even primary -- component of our leadership in every instance." Read the President's speech In a sign of the sentiments of the cadets, Obama got big applause when he noted they were the first West Point graduates in more than a decade unlikely to be stationed in a war zone. Since he took office, Obama noted, America had ended the Iraq war and was preparing to end the Afghanistan conflict, decimated al Qaeda's leadership in the border region between Pakistan and Afghanistan, and eliminated Osama bin Laden. Now it was time to shift foreign policy to combat a continuing terrorist threat that "no longer comes from a centralized al Qaeda leadership," but from "decentralized al Qaeda affiliates and extremists, with agendas focused in the countries where they operate." "This lessens the possibility of large-scale 9/11-style attacks against the homeland, but heightens the danger of U.S. personnel overseas being attacked, as we saw in Benghazi," Obama said in reference to the 2012 assault that killed four Americans at a U.S. compound in Libya. "It heightens the danger to less defensible targets, as we saw in a shopping mall in Nairobi," he said of the attack last year in Kenya. "So we have to develop a strategy that matches this diffuse threat; one that expands our reach without sending forces that stretch our military thin, or stir up local resentments." Returning to a theme he's visited throughout his presidency, Obama said he would continue to push for closing the terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay "because American values and legal traditions don't permit the indefinite detention of people beyond our borders." Overall, Obama said, "America has rarely been stronger relative to the rest of the world," and he contended that "those who argue otherwise -- who suggest that America is in decline, or has seen its global leadership slip away -- are either misreading history or engaged in partisan politics." "The question we face -- the question each of you will face -- is not whether America will lead, but how we will lead, not just to secure our peace and prosperity, but also extend peace and prosperity around the globe," Obama told the cadets. The President's speech came a day after he spelled out a plan that would leave nearly 10,000 troops in Afghanistan at year's end but essentially end the broader U.S. military commitment there by the end of 2016. "We can not only responsibly end our war in Afghanistan and achieve the objectives that took us to war in the first place, we'll also be able to begin a new chapter in the story of American leadership around the world," Obama said in the White House Rose Garden on Tuesday. Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai welcomed Obama's announcement of planned troop levels, saying in a statement posted Wednesday on his official website that his government was "grateful to the international community for its assistance and remains confident" in the ability of the expanded and NATO-trained Afghan forces to protect the country and its people. 5 foreign policy headaches for Obama Although Obama enjoyed high-profile foreign-policy successes at the beginning of his time in office, including the military mission to find and kill bin Laden, he's come under harsh criticism recently for what opponents say is a passive approach abroad. They cite his record in Syria, where he backed away from airstrikes after President Bashar al-Assad's regime was reported to have used chemical weapons on citizens. Congress balked at approving the military force, leaving Obama to instead negotiate a deal that would remove the chemical stockpiles from al-Assad's control but keep al-Assad himself in power amid an ongoing civil war. In his speech Wednesday, Obama said there was no military solution to the Syrian civil war, and added that he will "work with Congress to ramp up support for those in the Syrian opposition who offer the best alternative to terrorists and a brutal dictator." Earlier, Secretary of State John Kerry defended U.S. policy for Syria, including the deal struck to get chemical weapons out of the country. Speaking to CNN's "New Day," he said he found it difficult to believe that critics would have preferred a military strike and hurting the al-Assad regime temporarily. He said that 92% of Syria's chemical weapons have been removed, and the other 8% are under control, waiting to be removed. "It's remarkable to me that people simply want to refuse to accept that we're better off getting all of the weapons out than striking for one or two days and doing damage to some of them," Kerry said. Critics of Obama's foreign policy also have said the President's clear assertion that military force is off the table in Ukraine sends the wrong message to other countries -- namely China -- that have their own territorial disputes with neighbor states. The United States and its allies have imposed economic sanctions on Russia for its incursion into Ukraine, though that step hasn't done much to quiet the arguments coming from Obama's detractors. On Wednesday, Obama reiterated his policy that the United States will used military force, "unilaterally if necessary," when its people are threatened, its livelihood is at stake or allies are in danger, but he said the threshold was higher when global issues "do not pose a direct threat" to the nation. "In such circumstances, we should not go it alone," he said. "Instead, we must mobilize allies and partners to take collective action. We have to broaden our tools to include diplomacy and development; sanctions, isolation; appeals to international law and -- if just, necessary, and effective -- multilateral military action." Such a collective approach "is more likely to succeed, more likely to be sustained, and less likely to lead to costly mistakes," Obama said. Obama last spoke broadly about his foreign policy during a trip to Asia in April, defending himself against those who say his policy lacks a discernable direction. "You hit singles; you hit doubles; every once in a while we may be able to hit a home run," Obama said in Manila, lashing out at those who argue for greater use of military force in conflicts abroad. "Why is it that everyone is so eager to use military force?" he asked then. "After we have just gone through a decade of war at enormous costs to our troops and our budget. And what is it exactly that these critics would have accomplished?" According to aides, Obama's West Point speech kicks off a broader foreign policy push that will carry into his upcoming trip to Europe that includes a G7 summit in Brussels and a visit to Poland, designed to reassure Eastern European allies after Russia's intervention in Ukraine. CNN's Jim Acosta and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report, which was written by Tom Cohen in Washington 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/us/edward-snowden-interview/index.html	us	NSA leaker Edward Snowden 'was trained as a spy,' he tells NBC - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 10:21:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A low-level systems administrator? Or a highly trained spy? Edward Snowden sought to bolster his credentials during an interview with NBC "Nightly News" anchor Brian Williams. The one-hour interview, Snowden's first with a U.S. television network, is scheduled to air at 10 p.m. ET on Wednesday. An excerpt aired Tuesday night. "I was trained as a spy in sort of the traditional sense of the word -- in that I lived and worked undercover, overseas, pretending to work in a job that I'm not -- and even being assigned a name that was not mine," Snowden said. "Now, the government might deny these things. They might frame it in certain ways, and say, oh, well, you know, he's a low-level analyst. "But what they're trying to do is they're trying to use one position that I've had in a career, here or there, to distract from the totality of my experience, which is that I've worked for the Central Intelligence Agency, undercover, overseas. "I've worked for the National Security Agency, undercover, overseas. And I've worked for the Defense Intelligence Agency as a lecturer at the Joint Counterintelligence Training Academy, where I developed sources and methods for keeping our information and people secure in the most hostile and dangerous environments around the world." Snowden continued: "So when they say I'm a low-level systems administrator, that I don't know what I'm talking about, I'd say it's somewhat misleading." A spokeswoman for the NSA declined to comment Tuesday on the NBC report. Williams traveled to Moscow, where Snowden fled to escape prosecution for leaking classified documents that detailed U.S. surveillance programs. Snowden hasn't been able to leave Russia since U.S. officials charged him with espionage and revoked his passport. What he leaked sparked a national debate about privacy and security. President Barack Obama and military officials remain in support of mass, warrantless surveillance. But civil libertarians, technology companies and others oppose it, noting the lack of transparency. READ: On Russian TV, Snowden asks Putin about Moscow surveillance READ: Edward Snowden speaks at SXSW, calls for public oversight of U.S. spy programs READ: Stories about NSA surveillance, Snowden leaks win Pulitzers for two news groups CNN's Jose Pagliery and Jamie Crawford contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/asia/pakistan-pregnant-woman-killed/index.html	world	Pregnant woman stoned to death by family members in Pakistani city - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 05:59:21 EDT 2014	Islamabad, Pakistan (CNN) -- A pregnant woman is beaten to death by her relatives outside a court building. Her crime? To elope with the man she loved rather than marry the groom chosen by her family. The terrible fate of Farzana Parveen, 25, is one shared by all too many women in Pakistan and elsewhere. She was killed in the name of "honor," on the grounds her actions had brought shame on her family. "I do not even wish to use the phrase 'honour killing': there is not the faintest vestige of honour in killing a woman in this way," UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said in a statement condemning the killing. Pillay called on Pakistan's government to work harder to stop such killings and protect women from violence. According to a report published in April by the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, 869 women in the country were the victims of honor killings last year. And activists say the true number may be much higher. Parveen's brutal killing is all the more shocking because it was so public. She was beaten to death with bricks close to the high court in the eastern city of Lahore by a group of about 20 people, including her brothers, father and cousin, police said. One family member made a noose of rough cloth around her neck while her brothers smashed bricks into her skull, said Mushtaq Ahmed, a police official, citing the preliminary report into the killing. She was three months pregnant, he said. So-called honor killings often originate from tribal traditions in Pakistan, but are not a part of Islam. Although they're common in rural areas, Tuesday's attack in a public area of a big city was unusual. Police officials said Parveen, who came from a village in Punjab, had refused to wed the cousin whom her family had selected for her, choosing instead to elope with a widower named Mohammad Iqbal. The cousin intended for her husband was among the people who attacked her, police said. Sudanese woman sentenced to death for her Christianity gives birth 'Barbaric' attack The family had challenged Parveen's marriage to Iqbal in the courts, accusing him of abducting her. The attack took place as she was on her way from her lawyer's office to the high court in Lahore, where she was expected to make a declaration that she had married Iqbal of her own volition. One of Pakistan's leading newspapers, The Nation, expressed outrage over Parveen's killing . "The familiar brand of barbaric 'justice' yet again triumphs over the written law of the land," it said in an editorial Wednesday. "Another case is settled outside the courts. Another woman, in search of justice, stoned to death, in the name of honor." Farzana Bari, a human rights activist based in Islamabad, said the real number may be far higher than the Human Rights Commission's official count since many families don't report the crimes. She said that in many cases, people outside the family don't step in to protect the victim. "I've seen in the past people stand around and watch, and don't intervene because it is a private matter," she told CNN on Wednesday. "I think honor killing is very much part of our culture. It is a cultural form of violence which is quite prevalent in certain parts of Pakistan." Honor killings happen more often in rural, tribal areas, Bari said, but urban cases occur too. Since many cases are not reported, police have no record and rights groups that try to document what's happening must do so through media reports and incomplete data. "There is no systematic information gathered in Pakistan that tells us the extent of the problem," she said. Impunity said to encourage killers And the killers often avoid prosecution. Under an Islamic element of Pakistani law, known as the law of Diyat, the family of a victim is allowed to forgive the perpetrator, according to the human rights commission's report. "Thus the victim's family usually is related to the perpetrator as well, and conveniently forgives their kin, absolving them of the murder," the report said. That possibility of impunity has "continued to encourage others to follow suit," it said. Bari gave a similar picture -- and called for a change in Pakistan's laws to protect women and the vulnerable. "Basically, the people have no fear of law because there is a culture of impunity and, as a result of that, people feel free and they can commit such acts outside the courts of justice," she said. She blames such actions also on violent and extremist attitudes which, she said, drive people to act even if they are aware of the potential consequences. "I think we must generally reflect on the sick mindset of the society," she said. Police said they had arrested Parveen's father, whose name they gave only as Azeem. They said he had admitted to the killing and expressed no regret. Search warrants are out for the other men accused of attacking her. READ: Why marrying for love should never mean death READ: Gunmen on motorbikes kill American doctor in Pakistan READ: India, Pakistan leaders meet, signal steps to rebuild trust CNN's Sophia Saifi reported from Islamabad, and Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Aliza Kassim contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/politics/mississippi-senate-primary/index.html	politics	Nasty Senate race digs deeper in the mud - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 12:02:34 EDT 2014	Biloxi, Mississippi (CNN) -- A conservative blogger is in jail -- arrested for allegedly breaking into a Mississippi nursing home to photograph U.S. Sen. Thad Cochran's ailing wife, who is suffering from dementia. "It's the worst," says the narrator of a new Cochran campaign ad airing in the final stretch before the June 3 primary, not so subtly pointing the finger at his GOP Senate challenger, Chris McDaniel, trying to stir up voter disgust. This race, one of the nastiest so far this election year, has gotten even deeper in the Mississippi mud than that. Cochran supporters argue the reason the blogger and tea party activist took Mrs. Cochran's picture was to feed questions about the senator and his longtime aide, Kay Webber. Cochran: Quiet pragmatist faces re-election challenge Conservative outlets that back McDaniel have been all over the fact Cochran rents a basement apartment in Webber's D.C. home, and that Webber has traveled extensively with Cochran on the taxpayer's dime. McDaniel's campaign often forwards these reports to its media email list, while the Cochran campaign calls her trips with the senator part of her job and suggestions of anything untoward are sexist. New ads in nasty Mississippi primary This Republican primary was supposed to be about the big struggle of ideas within the GOP: a 36-year Senate veteran being challenged by a young tea party-backed opponent who calls the senator a big-spending, out-of-touch Republican too entrenched in Washington. Now McDaniel is fending off questions about whether his campaign was involved in trying to photograph Cochran's sick wife. "Our campaign had absolutely no connection to that whatsoever, and the evidence has shown that. What we're doing right now -- we're talking about the issues," McDaniel told CNN in an interview. The next Ted Cruz? But what gave ammunition to Cochran allies is that McDaniel's story about when he found out about the break-in has been inconsistent. When we asked for clarification, McDaniel wouldn't go there, replying, "Look, we're going to focus on his record." Three more arrested in Mississippi Senate primary scandal If McDaniel has his way, he would be the next Ted Cruz, going to the Senate to shake things up -- stick to conservative principles, compromise be damned. "We don't have six more years of the status quo," he said. "I am not going to Washington D.C. to be a member of the cocktail circuit or to make backroom deals. I'm going up there to fight and defend the Constitution. We don't have time to waste. So with all due respect I would suggest they join me in this fight because they've been silent far too long," he told us. "He and I are very different with our ideology. He's a guy that believes in big government. He believes in big spending. He believes in increasing taxes. He believes in increasing his own pay. I am not that guy," McDaniel said. For the tea party movement nationwide -- after a string of primary losses this election year from Kentucky to Idaho -- McDaniel has been its great hope of 2014, the candidate with the best chance of toppling an establishment Republican. Things were looking good for McDaniel earlier this year, especially after Cochran stumbled by telling a local reporter here that "the tea party is something I don't really know a lot about." Millions of dollars pouring into Mississippi against Cochran come from a who's who of national tea party groups nationwide: Citizens United, Club For Growth, Senate Conservatives Fund, Tea Party Patriots and Freedomworks. The Sunlight Foundation, a nonprofit group that tracks money in politics, says outside groups have spent $7.6 million on the race, much of it for McDaniel and against Cochran. 2014 midterms: Key races Fighting back against tea party challenges But like other Republican incumbents this year, Cochran and his allies are fighting back hard. Henry Barbour, nephew of former Mississippi governor and RNC chairman Haley Barbour, formed a super PAC called Mississippi Conservatives to help Cochran. They have been airing aggressive ads slamming McDaniel as extreme, inconsistent and out of touch with Mississippi's needs. Other traditional GOP groups like the Chamber of Commerce have also come in with ads supporting Cochran, like they have for GOP incumbents in other states this year. Still, Cochran's four decades in Washington have won him loyal supporters. On Memorial Day, Cochran attended an event in Vicksburg. He was invited by the Democratic mayor, George Flaggs, who called him a "mentor" and "great friend." Flaggs told CNN he intends to vote for Cochran in the GOP primary since Mississippi law allows Democrats and others not registered as Republicans to participate. He said Cochran fights hard for Mississippi's needs and calls his seniority -- ranking Republican on the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, a big plus for the state. "He's a leader; he's a statesman, and he's what we need in Washington. So stay as long as he wants to stay," Flagg said. Republican Briggs Hopson serves with McDaniel in the Mississippi state Senate, and told CNN he likes McDaniel but that Cochran is the "best person for Mississippi right now." "Seniority can be a plus. People can lose touch and get lazy and all those things but I don't think that's the case with Senator Cochran. He's been responsive to the needs in Mississippi for many years," Hopson told CNN. 'Those days are over' When we put those bipartisan sentiments to McDaniel he responded with an emphatic, "come on!" "I say name one fight Senator Cochran's lead against Barack Obama. Name one time he's raised his voice in defense of conservatism. Name one time he's fought back the liberal agenda. Name one piece of legislation he's authored in 42 years that benefited the conservative cause. Name one thing that he's been outwardly aggressive about. And they can't name one," McDaniel told CNN. "Look, there may have been a time for that in 1973 when he first went to Washington. Maybe when Richard Nixon was president that was the thing people did. Those days are over." We wanted to ask Cochran himself why he thinks he should get another six years, after serving 36 in the U.S. Senate and six before that in the House. But Cochran is trying to run out the clock and avoid unforced errors -- and going to head-scratching extremes to avoid talking to reporters like us. We tried to catch Cochran after his event in Vicksburg, but when an aide came out and saw us waiting, they did a bait and switch -- the car they told us Cochran was getting into screeched away without him, while he snuck out another door and left in another car, leaving reporters in the dust. Special coverage: 2014 midterms  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/california-anonymous-donor-hidden-cash-twitter/index.html	us	@HiddenCash lines pockets, warms heart of anonymous philanthropist - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 12:11:50 EDT 2014	San Francisco (CNN) -- It's a scavenger hunt for cash through the most modern of means: social media. An anonymous, wealthy California man is hiding up to $100 or so in public places in San Francisco, Oakland and San Jose and then posting clues to the money's whereabouts through his Twitter page, appropriately dubbed Hidden Cash. The $100 bills or envelopes containing several $20 bills are amounting to $1,000-a-day philanthropy in what the Twitter account calls "an anonymous social experiment for good." The results have been a feel-good sensation in California: The Twitter page features selfies of joyous people who found the money -- flashing smiles and cash -- with testimonials of what they're going to do next. The cash hunts ventured into a third city, San Jose, on Wednesday. The anonymous donor and owner of the Twitter page is a real estate investor who's had the good fortune of joining the wealthiest 1% of American society, especially in the past few years, he said. When he recently closed a deal with a six-figure profit, the philanthropist decided to "give some of it back" through random acts of kindness, he told CNN. "This is not a set-up charity, but I wanted to do something fun and creative," he said. "We were thinking of something like the 'Survivor' TV show or something of that nature that was a scavenger hunt. They were basically too involved. So what we did was hide cash in different places. I thought it would be fun, but it's also something simple to execute. All you're doing is leaving money and putting clues on Twitter." The man said he's between ages 35 and 45 -- and would give no more information. He maintains anonymity because he wants the attention on his pay-it-forward activities, not himself. "There's some crazy people out there in the world," he added. This week, he will expand his hunt-for-cash giveaway to Los Angeles and possibly other cities across the country, if he can secure helpers, he said. He's been giving away about a grand daily since Friday, he said. For example, his Twitter page offered this clue Tuesday with a photograph of San Francisco's waterfront and the Golden Gate Bridge: "New drop: come for the cash, stay for the views." The @HiddenCash page even taunted his followers -- which had grown to 70,000 by Tuesday afternoon -- by stating: "Surprising with almost 70k followers, but the $$$ I just left the water is still there 15+ minutes later. And that was an easy one!" Izzy Miller, a San Francisco college student, was the lucky hunter who found the $100 bill in an envelope. Miller posted a photograph of himself and the folded $100 bill, joined by CNN correspondent Dan Simon, who found Miller just after Miller found the Benjamin Franklin. Miller learned of the clue after his phone alerted him about a new tweet posted by Hidden Cash. Miller rolled out of bed and dashed to the waterfront. There, he found the ka-ching in an envelope taped to a tourist information box. "I think it's awesome," Miller said. "It's a totally fun thing to do, and the fact that he's doing it in a philanthropic and charitable mindset makes it even cooler." Miller said he would buy climbing shoes with the money. The anonymous donor is emotionally moved by the words and photos that successful searchers post on Twitter, he said. "There's absolutely no political agenda; there's no religious agenda; there's no business agenda," the man said of his unconventional philanthropy. "The whole agenda is random acts of kindness and pay it forward and to put a smile on people's face. "When I see people retweet the photos and say, 'I could have really used this money' or 'my autistic stepson found it' or 'we shared it with people that were with us at the beach' or 'I bought lunch for my coworkers' or 'just giving it charities,' there's a lot of heartwarming stories for people," he said. The anonymous man plans to continue the cash giveaways for the indefinite future. Money is no object for him. It's only the time it takes to set up the hunts. "I'm running around leaving money in different places, and there's only one me," he said, adding that a friend is helping. He would like other wealthy people across the country to follow his lead: "I'd like for this to become a movement," establishing a chain reaction of charitable giving. "If you can give back, it's at least as rewarding as making good investments and getting big checks and making a lot of money." He urges people not to look to him -- or lotteries -- as a godsend. There are plenty of job and business opportunities if people look hard enough, he asserted. "I want to say to the people that are struggling, please realize it's a game. It's pay it forward. Don't look to this or to the lottery to be your financial salvation," he said. Still, solicitations flood his inbox: He's now overwhelmed by e-mails (his address is on the Twitter page) from people seeking money for a down payment, mortgage payment, child's college tuition or even dental work. "That's more than I really bargained for," the man said. Still, he has no plans to stop the small-treasure hunts. "I'm having a great time," he declared. The only people who have figured out his identity are his friends, who identified his voice from his audio-only interviews with northern California broadcast outlets. New York roomies return $41,000 found in thrift-store couch For New York lottery winner, $1 million was blowing in the wind CNN's Dan Simon and Jeff King contributed from San Francisco. Michael Martinez wrote from Los Angeles.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/04/05/living/irpt-real-60s/index.html	living	What the late '60s really looked like - CNN.com	2013/04/05	Friday Apr 5 08:15:26 EDT 2013	Editor's note: This is an update of a story that originally ran in April 2013. Do you have family or personal photos from the 1960s? Share them with iReport!  (CNN) -- As "Mad Men" returns for its seventh season, many viewers will tune in to see what happens next for Don, Peggy, Pete and the other characters of the hit AMC show. Many will also be eager to see the fabulous clothes they wear. We can't help but wonder -- was all that glamour real, or is it just the magic of TV? We asked readers to share their snapshots from 1967-69 and show us what the late '60s really looked like. Janie Lambert, 61, says she thinks "Mad Men" portrays the decade's conservative fashion and mod look accurately. But she remembers the late 1960s as more colorful and vibrant. "My favorite looks in the '60s were the bright colors and bold patterns, stripes and polka dots, miniskirts, long hair and pale lipstick," Lambert says. 'Mad Men' and the other 1960s Many iReporters strived to keep up with the fast pace of the changing fashion in the late '60s. Patricia Anne Alfano, 66, went from a British-inspired mod style cheerleader to a hippie in a matter of three years. In 1967, Alfano was an "Eaglette" -- an NFL cheerleader for the Philadelphia Eagles. Unlike today, the cheerleaders were covered from head to toe. The uniforms had long sleeves, and the cheerleaders wore gloves and cloth helmets. "From the early 1960s until 1967, I spent tons of time on my hair," she says, noting her mod hairdo in the picture is actually a wig. "Wigs were big back then. Everyone had at least one." In 1968, the style began to evolve. Alfano still spent a lot of time on her hair, but her peers began heavily criticizing all things materialistic, so the style became more casual. "I was still 'fussing' a bit with my hair, but the times were changing, and so was I," she says. The changing fashion of 'Mad Men' A year later, Alfano joined the "flower children," moved to California, grew her hair out and wore more flowing clothes. She says many women stopped dying their hair or wearing makeup. Some even stopped shaving. "It was all part of the 'revolution,' and the anti-establishment movement," Alfano says. "I must say, though, that through these turbulent times, I did continue shaving my legs and underarms." Living large in Don Draper's New York In 1969, the fashion changed to more vibrant, hippie clothing. Though Nikki C. Morris, 64, wore a yellow dress with long white gloves to her high school prom in 1967, colorful dresses in the late 1960s weren't too appealing to her. "All I remember about the fashion of that time was that it was too colorful for my tastes," Morris says. "I remember thinking that most of the dresses and the girls wearing them looked like Easter eggs. I wasn't a fan."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/asia/vietnam-china-dispute-mckirdy/index.html	world	A dangerous dance: China, Vietnam posture in the South China Sea - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 03:27:09 EDT 2014	Vietnamese Coast Guard 8003, South China Sea (CNN) -- It takes a long time to get to the middle of nowhere. For a contingent of almost 40 reporters, hours of waiting both on land and then at sea preceded a trip to one of the world's most hotly contested areas of maritime real estate. The Vietnamese government had been at pains to keep this media trip under wraps, keeping print, online and broadcast journalists from Asia and the United States guessing as to the day and time of departure. That secrecy may have been for naught: at a pre-departure briefing we are told that while the Vietnamese Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not formally informed its Chinese counterpart of the presence of journalists in the area, a Coast Guard official mentions that "chances are" China knows about it. But depart we do, boarding a small coastguard support vessel Monday evening as the sun dies over Da Nang, bound for the disputed waters surrounding the South China Sea's Paracel Islands, known to China as the Xisha Islands. China's controversial installation of an oil-rig in these waters at the beginning of May sparked protests -- some of which turned violent -- in Vietnam and statements from a variety of world leaders, urging the two sides to resolve this dispute quickly and without bloodshed. READ: Chinese ships reach Vietnam to evacuate citizens One side, at least, appears to be in agreement. "The Vietnamese Coast Guard are committed to resolving the situation peacefully," says Hoang Tuan Anh, the captain of the supply ship upon which we hitch a ride. Strictly utilitarian, our sturdy ride boasts one 125mm cannon on its prow and two 14.5mm guns aft. It is the kind of supply ship that every coast guard needs, and also houses a huge number of plastic 10-gallon jugs of drinking water, a galley piled with vegetables, and a bevy of live chickens under one of the exterior staircases -- supplies badly needed by their crew mates and friends on the front line. As the sun rises again the next morning, we're still chugging steadily toward our destination, claimed by both China and Vietnam. Vietnamese boat sinks after collision with Chinese vessel Clear message A mid-sea ship change to CG 8003 -- and slightly less cramped conditions -- awaits us as noon approaches. By then we have reached the area where China had, earlier in the month, unilaterally planted a flag on this area of supposedly oil rich sea. The flag, in this case, was an imposing oil-rig that sent a clear message: the Xisha Islands are ours to do with what we will. READ: How an oil rig sparked anti-China riots in Vietnam No buoys mark the territory, and there is no landfall in sight: just a shimmering expanse of deep water, albeit one with the promise of fossil fuel riches beneath. As we arrive news comes that the rig -- run by state-owned oil company the China National Offshore Oil Corporation's (CNOOC) -- has been moved: no small task for something as big and unwieldy -- yet politically volatile. The operation to move the structure began on Monday morning and was completed by 10.30 p.m. local time, just hours after our voyage began but, equally, hours before we arrived in the zone. Approaching the area, dots on the horizon become ships, which then become a flotilla -- or perhaps more accurately two separate flotilla -- of both Chinese and Vietnamese commercial and coast guard vessels. This mishmash of fishing and military vessels is all that remains of the flashpoint of a couple of weeks ago, and in a seemingly stage-crafted set of maneuvers dance around this expanse of utterly blue, clear sea. Aggressive foghorns It's a lively affair, alternating between angry, static-y rhetoric that informs the Chinese that they are in violation of international law, and aggressive foghorns and sirens, raising a cacophony on this otherwise peaceful, sunny afternoon. "I've traveled out to these waters many times but recently the Chinese have been more aggressive towards the Vietnamese," says Hoang, captain of the support vessel. "I'm proud to protect Vietnam." The dance is supervised by the respective country's coast guard vessels, who hopefully have too much sense to engage directly with each other. But hanging over the day's events is the knowledge that just hours before, a Chinese fishing vessel had rammed and sunk one of its Vietnamese counterparts. READ: Vietnamese boat sinks after collision with Chinese vessel No lives were lost in this incident but it is the first time that a boat has been sunk in this chapter of the often-acrimonious relationship between these two ideologically similar neighbors. As the afternoon begins to wrap up, one of the larger Chinese coast-guard vessel homes in on our ship, horn blasting incoherently as it attempts a little maritime brinksmanship. Nobody on board CG 8003 seems to be overly worried, although life jackets are donned as a fillip. Like a dog reaching the end of its chain, the Chinese vessel barks at us a few remaining times, before turning heel. Off the starboard bow, two other Chinese vessels harry a smaller Vietnamese fishing boat, pushing it further from the center of this disagreement which, if left untended, could have dramatic consequences for these two countries, key players in a region that is -- perhaps belatedly -- starting to buck under the weight of Chinese hegemony. READ: Chinese ships reach Vietnam to evacuate citizens READ: How an oil rig sparked anti-China riots in Vietnam READ: Vietnamese boat sinks after collision with Chinese vessel READ: What's behind China's territorial spats?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/tech/innovation/google-self-driving-car/index.html	tech	Google self-driving car has no steering wheel or brake - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 12:03:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- If you're uneasy at the idea of riding in a vehicle that drives itself, just wait till you see Google's new car. It has no gas pedal, no brake and no steering wheel. Google has been demonstrating its driverless technology for several years by retrofitting Toyotas, Lexuses and other cars with cameras and sensors. But now, for the first time, the company has unveiled a prototype of its own: a cute little car that looks like a cross between a VW Beetle and a golf cart. "They won't have a steering wheel, accelerator pedal, or brake pedal ... because they don't need them," Google said Tuesday in a blog post introducing the unnamed electric vehicles. "Our software and sensors do all the work." Unlike previous models, these cars won't have human drivers monitoring them at all times. Google said the cars can detect objects up to 200 yards away in all directions and adjust their speed, turns and braking accordingly. The cars' speed for now has been capped at 25 mph, allowing engineers to minimize the risk of crashes during testing. Inside, the spartan cars have few dashboard controls, no glove box and no stereo. "We've designed for learning, not luxury, so we're light on creature comforts," Google said. "But we'll have two seats (with seatbelts), a space for passengers' belongings, buttons to start and stop, and a screen that shows the route -- and that's about it." Google did not explain how the car navigates, although passengers would presumably punch in a destination on the dashboard screen and let the computers do the rest. The company plans to build about 100 prototype vehicles and begin testing them later this summer. If everything goes well, Google then will run a small pilot program in California over the next few years. The cars represent another step into hardware for Google, which in recent years has introduced its Glass connected headset and bought Nest, a startup that makes "smart" thermostats and smoke detectors. Google said it eventually hopes to partner with an automaker to produce the self-driving vehicles instead of building them itself. The bubblelike Google cars arrive as the U.S. is struggling to accept a sci-fi future of robotic vehicles and other technological advancements. A recent Pew survey found that half of Americans would not ride in a self-driving car. Four states -- California, Nevada, Florida and Michigan -- now allow self-driving vehicles on their roads as long as a human driver is behind the wheel at all times. Most major automakers are also developing vehicles that drive autonomously. Google posted a video Tuesday featuring testimonials from people who had ridden in the new cars. "The human feeling of it is very well engineered, and it is very smooth," said an older man identified only as Nick. "There's nothing that makes you feel the least bit threatened."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/travel/controversial-foods/index.html	travel	9 of the world's most controversial foods - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 02:25:07 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Exotic food is part of the global travel experience. But recent efforts by conservation groups to ban the much-loved deep fried shark sandwich in Trinidad and Tobago have proved these experiences are often fraught with cultural difficulties, especially for travelers who like to experiment with new experiences. Here are some of the more exotic food items travelers might encounter, along with reasons some say you should avoid them. Ortolan (France) The ortolan is a songbird found throughout Europe. In France, home to one of the largest populations, it's a delicacy traditionally consumed beneath a napkin, because it's eaten whole, the entire creature devoured in one mouthful. The dish featured in the latest "Hannibal" TV series. Poachers illegally kill thousands every year and the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) estimates that the species has declined by 30% over the past decade. "The population has declined steadily due to illegal hunting purely to satisfy epicurean appetites," says Professor Stanley Temple, a conservation expert at the University of Wisconsin. "We have a terrible history of decimating birds like the ortolan, which are hunted solely for illicit profit." MORE: 10 best French restaurants in Paris Shark fin (China) "One quarter of species of shark are at risk of extinction and demand for fins is a substantial component of this threat," says Professor Michael McCarthy, a conservationist at the University of Melbourne. You're mostly likely to come across shark fin soup in China, where the expensive dish is traditionally served at weddings, or to welcome guests and to show respect at other formal occasions. In Asia, consumption of shark fins and meat is legal, and Taiwan is the only Asian country to ban the controversial practice of finning, which involves removing the shark's fin and discarding the rest of the carcass at sea. Recently some airlines and hotels in Hong Kong removed shark fin from their menus in response to the controversy and China banned the serving of shark fin at official government banquets. MORE: More airlines ban shark fin cargo MORE: China bans shark fin dishes at official banquets Green sea turtle (Cayman Islands) Travelers are most likely to find green sea turtle meat in the Cayman Islands (where it's regarded as a national dish and legal to consume and breed the species), throughout the Caribbean, Asia and some of the U.S. southern states, although it's illegal to import, sell, or transport the species in the United States. Diminishing numbers and the widely condemned breeding conditions found at the world's only legal breeding facility in the Cayman Islands mean travelers should avoid this dish, according to some. "Whilst some local communities may depend on turtle meat for subsistence and cultural reasons, there's no need for travelers or tourists to eat this endangered animal," points out Elise Neve at the World Society for the Protection of Animals. MORE: 10 top Caribbean secrets Pangolin (China) If you're keen to impress friends with tales of exotic foods the pangolin might tick the box, but increased demand has wreaked havoc for the creature, despite its unappetizing appearance. You're most likely to find a plateful of pangolin in China, where it's now illegal to hunt the animal. The pangolins' secretive, solitary and nocturnal habits have made it hard to estimate numbers, although records point to a sharp decrease. 7 ways to save the pangolin "Pangolins look like armor-plated lizards, but are shy, nocturnal mammals," explains Simon Pope, director of campaigns and communications at World Society for the Protection of Animals. "The wildlife trade network TRAFFIC has reported that the insatiable demand for pangolin meat has decimated populations and demand from China is now seeing pangolins in Africa being hunted for the Asian restaurant market." MORE: Off the menu: China moves to protect endangered species Western long-beaked echidna (Papua New Guinea) The Western long-beaked echidna's native home is New Guinea, but the threat of extinction looms large due to hunting for human consumption. It's one of only two species of mammal to lay eggs (the other is the platypus), and is key to understanding mammalian evolution. The Papua New Guinean government has banned commercial hunting but traditional hunting with dogs is permitted. They're now incredibly rare in New Guinea, but breeding programs carried out by zoos in other countries are going some way to safeguard the species' future. Mountain chicken/giant ditch frog (Dominica, Montserrat) This super-sized amphibian may not look too appealing as a delicacy, but its popularity in the Caribbean has seen the population decline by 80% over the past decade. The meat regularly appears on restaurant menus, although it's now only found on Dominica and Montserrat. The IUCN, which lists the species as critically endangered, says up to 36,000 were being killed every year as recently as 2002, and estimates there are now just 8,000 remaining. Gorilla (Republic of the Congo) Gorillas have been pushed to the brink of extinction due to their popularity as bushmeat. In cities such as Pointe Noire in the Republic of the Congo, smoked gorilla meat is sold openly (but illegally) at markets. It's believed that more than 400 gorillas are killed for bushmeat every year, despite the fact that the species is listed as critically endangered by the IUCN. The species' low productive rates mean that even low levels of hunting have a devastating effect on populations. MORE: 10 things to know before visiting Democratic Republic of Congo Chinese giant salamander (China) Chinese giant salamanders are the largest species of amphibian and live in lakes and rivers in southern China. Over the past 30 years, over-harvesting for the food trade -- they sell for $1,000 a piece -- has seen an 80% decline in numbers, and it's now classed as critically endangered by the IUCN. Over-harvesting hasn't just threatened its survival but stunted its growth -- scientists believe that hunters' preference for larger salamanders is the reason they no longer grow beyond six feet in length. "Chinese giant salamander should always be avoided," says Claire Christian at the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition. "This species has declined to extremely low levels." Dolphin (Japan, Taiwan) Sale of dolphin meat for consumption is common and legal in Japan, although it's often mislabeled and sold as whale meat, which sells for much more. Although the way in which the dolphins are killed is controversial, most notably as highlighted by the movie "The Cove," none of the species being hunted in Japan are listed as endangered. In Taiwan, the catching, selling and consumption of dolphin meat was banned in 1989. Despite this, 1,000 dolphins are caught illegally there every year and dolphin fishcakes are often sold openly at street food stalls, especially in Western Taiwan. MORE: Japan officials defend dolphin hunting at Taiji Cove  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/travel/europe-affordable-castle-hotels/index.html	travel	Europe's best affordable castle hotels - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 08:09:47 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Once upon a time, only clan chiefs could sleep at Tulloch Castle in the Scottish Highlands. Now it welcomes all, even a rumored resident ghost. With their hallowed hallways, romantic turrets and fairy-tale-like charms, castles have long intrigued travelers, especially Americans who have no such royal history stateside. Fortunately, you don't need a king's ransom: Our favorite European castle hotels start at $98 a night and many have hosted notable aristocrats. Switzerland's Wartegg Castle made a scenic lakeside refuge for the exiled Zita of Bourbon-Parma (Austria's last empress), while Belgium's Chteau d'Hassonville was the former hunting grounds of French enfant terrible Louis XIV. Rooms hark back to the 17th century with trappings like bronze busts, thick drapery, fireplaces and even complimentary carafes of port. Even scientists aren't immune to the magic of castles. Southern Sweden's Hckeberga Castle won over botanist Carl Linnaeus, who praised its flora and fauna. Look for ravens, white-tailed eagles and red deer in the beechwood forests along the region's new Linnaeus hiking trail -- just be back to the castle in time for a fresh seafood dinner. Without further ado, here's our list of affordable European castle hotels: Parador de Oropesa, Spain Legend has it that this 14th-century castillo in the foothills of the Sierra de Gredos was built on a site first settled in 1716 B.C. by Hercules's soldiers. Whatever its origins, Oropesa is undoubtedly one of Spain's oldest paradors. Forty-eight rooms are scattered with vintage tiles, colorful throw rugs, hand-painted canopy beds and Peruvian folk art imported by former resident Count of Oropesa, Francisco de Toledo, who served as the viceroy of Peru from 1569 to 1581. A swimming pool commands extensive views of the surrounding mountains, olive trees and the whitewashed medieval village of Oropesa, while the loggia-style terrace is a great place to linger over a creamy cod with salsa Antigua Monacal and glass of Rioja. parador.es/en; rooms from $125. Travel + Leisure: Europe's most beautiful villages Chteau d'Isenbourg, France At a bend of the Rhine where Switzerland, Germany and France converge, this Alsatian member of the Small Luxury Hotel collection was the former royal residence of Dagobert II in the seventh-century Merovingian era. Now the castle hosts visitors in frilly Rococo-style rooms and encourages them to relax, whether by the outdoor swimming pool or in the Turkish bath and sauna (a few glasses of Alsatian wine from the 12th-century cellars also do nicely). The chteau is not far from Colmar, one of Europe's most beautiful villages, and overlooks the medieval city of Rouffach, the Black Forest and the Vosges foothills. slh.com; rooms from $191. 8 elegant U.S. mansion hotels Chteau d'Hassonville, Belgium Summon your musketeers for a getaway to this multiturreted 17th-century chteau in the densely forested Ardennes, once the hunting grounds of France's enfant terrible King Louis XIV. Rooms look the part thanks to bronze busts, floral wallpaper, thick drapery, fireplaces and complimentary carafes of port. And haute cuisine suppers are no less extravagant. Feast on pot-au-feu d'homard and filet de Buf Limousin interspersed with cheese courses and palate cleansers. After dinner, explore the multiple salons. hassonville.be; rooms from $169. Travel + Leisure: Affordable small hotels in Paris bidos Pousada, bidos, Portugal The walled town of bidos is a highlight of many tourist circuits, but only a select few can overnight in the 12th-century castle's plush pousada. The 17 spacious rooms, each named after a king or queen, feature whitewashed walls, four-poster canopied beds and Manueline touches like azulejo-tiled bathrooms and arrow-slit windows with views onto the windmills and vineyards. The restaurant's Portuguese cuisine includes earthy dishes like honey-roasted duck and thyme-infused veal. For those seeking a bit of majestic leisure, the hotel can arrange carriage rides, lake rowing and even hunts. pousadas.pt; from $176. Travel + Leisure: Best hotels in Italy Dornrschenschloss Sababurg, Germany The twin turrets of the enchanted, 675-year-old Dornrschenschloss ("Little Thorny Rose Castle") rise from the surrounding ancient oak forest like an illustration in a fairy tale. It's only fitting as this castle is located on Germany's Fairy Tale Road and claims to be the inspiration of the Brothers Grimm's Legend of Sleeping Beauty, who some say slept here for a century before she was saved by a kiss. It's likely that the brothers did visit this castle, which was then in ruins. Today, a 17-room hotel occupies part of the castle, with canopied beds, cathedral ceilings, stone walls, and of course, extremely comfortable beds. sababurg.de; rooms from $120. Tulloch Castle Hotel, Ross-shire, Scotland Once upon a time, only the chiefs of clans could sleep in such a privileged property. Now this 12th-century castle, 45 minutes' drive from Inverness Airport (and just 28 miles from Loch Ness), is open to all, even a rumored resident ghost. A 250-year-old wood-paneled great hall and trappings like oversize plaid headboards, large drafty fireplaces and a family and pet cemetery -- replete with overgrown scrub and an iron gate -- add to the haunted atmosphere. It's all a fitting tribute to the 20-bedroom castle's windswept Scottish Highland location. bespokehotels.com; rooms from $108. Wartegg Castle, St. Gallen, Switzerland Zita of Bourbon-Parma, the last empress of Austria, once gazed out at Lake Constance from this 16th-century castle where she lived in exile. Today's guests turn up voluntarily to enjoy the picturesque location, staying in modernized accommodations with natural Japanese futons and/or Hsler mattresses on blonde-wood beds, exposed beams and quality Swiss-made Fischbacher bedding. End the day with organic poached pears and Appenzeller cheese and a dip in the historic turquoise bath built in 1928. wartegg.ch; rooms from $160. Leeds Castle, United Kingdom Six queens (including Henry VIII's first wife, Catherine of Aragon) have lived in Leeds Castle, which has stood in Kent, 40 miles southeast of London, since Norman times. Book a room in the Maiden's Tower -- or opt for "Knight's Glamping" and sleep in a colorfully striped medieval-style tent in the vineyard. Four-poster beds and fur throws make the experience more regal than rustic. leeds-castle.com; rooms from $150. Hckeberga Castle, Sweden Located on one of seven small islands in Sweden's Lake Hckeberga district, this castle dates back to the 14th-century, but has been owned only by the Tham family since 1824. The property's farm was once praised in the writings of roving Swedish botanist Carl Linnaeus, who stayed here in 1749 and called it "the most graceful of all farms in Skne." It remains a favorite of naturalists, who can hike the region's new Linnaeus Trail and spot ravens, white-tailed eagles and red deer in the native beechwood forests before returning to the property for dinner. Salted scallop with melon and pea shoots might be on the menu, or cod fillet with samphire. The property's whiskey hour, a tasting of Mackmyra Swedish spirits, is a fine way to end an evening. enghackebergaslott.sk11.se; rooms from $184. Chteau de Mirambeau, France Like an oenophile's dream home, the 19th-century Renaissance-style Chteau de Mirambeau sits between Bordeaux and Cognac, providing prime opportunities for visits to nearby vineyards. Of the 22 princely accommodations (canopied beds; silk-covered walls; marble baths), rooms in the main castle supply the best views of the surrounding 20-acre private park -- and the pristine Gironde estuary beyond. relaischateaux.com; rooms from $290. See more of Europe's best affordable castle hotels  Planning a getaway? Don't miss Travel + Leisure's guide to the World's Best Hotels  Copyright 2012 American Express Publishing Corporation. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/travel/futuristic-buildings-irpt/index.html	travel	Modern marvels of the world - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 11:12:51 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- What will the cities of tomorrow look like? Decades ago, people imagined the future looking like an episode of "The Jetsons," with flying cars and buildings perched high atop stilts. While we aren't living in space cities just yet, modern architecture has brought us a taste of the future. Futuristic buildings and space-age skyscrapers dot city skylines all over the world, like in Shanghai's ultramodern Bund district and Dubai's man-made Palm Islands. CNN iReporters sent in their favorites from their travels, including an amazing building designed to resemble a human eyeball, an American airport icon and a bizarre circular structure that defies the imagination. What's the most futuristic building you've seen? Send your best photos to CNN iReport!  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/05/living/cnnheroes-how-to-nominate/index.html	living	How to nominate a CNN Hero - CNN.com	2012/01/05	Thursday Jan 5 03:44:31 EST 2012	Nominations for 2014 CNN Heroes are being accepted online through August 31, 2014. (CNN) -- They're your neighbors, your friends, your colleagues, your parents. They are CNN Heroes, each of whom shows how one person can truly make a difference. Again this year, CNN encourages you to tell us about these everyday people changing the world -- by nominating them at CNNHeroes.com. Taking a few minutes to share their story with us could propel them to worldwide recognition. Maybe someone's selflessness has directly impacted your life. Destiny Bush nominated her mentor and "second mother," Tawanda Jones, whose drill team provides discipline and inspiration to thousands of children in the violent city of Camden, New Jersey. "It was important for the world to see this wonderful individual who commits herself effortlessly -- her heart, her body, her soul -- to our youth," said Bush, now a graduate student. Or maybe you know an individual in your community whose personal story and dedication inspires you. Denada Jackson's mom used to style Robin Emmons' hair. When Jackson bumped into Emmons years later, she learned about Emmons' efforts to help low-income neighborhoods access healthy, fresh food. "It just seemed right that I would nominate her, because I've never seen anyone that happy about helping other people," Jackson said. "She's making it happen for others in her community. Just to watch her be honored for that, to get a thank you, that was awesome." But you don't have to personally know the individual you nominate. Just be familiar with their work. Johanna Robinette, for example, lives in the same small town as Dale Beatty, who helps build and modify homes for injured veterans. Robinette had heard about Beatty's organization, and she saw nominating him as a way to help draw attention to his efforts. "To be able to take that time to do that, I was thankful that I did and thankful that (he was) honored in that way," Robinette said. "It felt great to be a part of that." It's easy to nominate an everyday person changing the world, but a thoughtful, well-written nomination is essential to help yours stand out from the thousands we receive. Here are some suggestions we hope will help you in crafting your nomination for consideration.  Think about what makes your hero special. Ask yourself: What makes my nominee unique? What specific accomplishment has he or she achieved that is truly remarkable? What impact has his or her work had on others? We encourage you to watch videos of previous CNN Heroes to familiarize yourself with the achievements of the inspiring individuals we honor as "everyday people changing the world."  Take a look at our nomination form. We suggest you review the information requested about yourself, your nominee and his or her work before filling out your submission.  Tell us about your hero. Take your time and write from the heart. Remember: What you share -- in your own words -- is the most important factor in advancing a nomination for further consideration. You can enter your answers to the essay questions directly on the form, or write them first in a word-processing document and "cut and paste" them into each answer field. Please note the information you provide will be used in accordance with our privacy policy.  Click "Submit." If your nomination has been successfully transmitted, you'll see a "thank you" message on your screen. If you provided us with your e-mail address, we'll also send a confirmation your nomination has been received. And yes, we read each and every one. That's it. Nominations for 2014 CNN Heroes remain open through August 31, 2014. Frequently Asked Questions Q: Who is eligible to be considered as a CNN Hero  A: Nominations must be in the name of a single individual, at least 13 years of age, whose accomplishment occurred (or continued) after November 1, 2013. Groups and organizations are ineligible for consideration. Self-nominations will not be accepted. Citizens of voided countries are also ineligible. For complete details on eligibility requirements and other rules governing selection of CNN Heroes, please read our legal disclosures. Q: How will I know if my hero is selected? A: Because of the high volume of nominations received, we cannot respond individually to each submission. However, if your nomination advances, we will contact you and your nominee through the contact information you provide. Q: What if I don't know my nominee's address, e-mail and telephone number? A: Please make every effort to provide as much contact information as possible. We require either an e-mail address or telephone number so we may quickly contact your nominee to obtain permission for consideration as a CNN Hero. Q: May I submit additional supportive information about my nominee? A: There's space at the end of the form to provide links to articles or websites with more information about your hero. Please do not send additional material unless requested. Q: May I mail or fax my nomination? A: No. All nominations must be submitted online through our website. Q: What if my nomination form is rejected? A: When filling out your form, please note that certain information is required. Those fields are marked with an asterisk (*). If you are not certain of your hero's nationality, select "Other" from the country drop-down menu. Likewise, if you're unsure which category his or her cause belongs in, just click "Other." CNN is not responsible for technical problems that may prevent your submission from being successfully transmitted. You may wish to first write and save the answers to essay questions in a word-processing document. That way, if you need to resubmit your nomination, you can "cut and paste" those answers into the form without rewriting them. Q: Can I buy tickets to "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute"?   A: Unfortunately, seating is limited and by invitation only. Air dates and times for the global broadcast of "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute" will be announced in October. Have other questions or comments about CNN Heroes? Contact us.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/10/us/cnnheroes-leary/index.html	us	Former firefighter rescues pets in disasters - CNN.com	2014/04/10	Thursday Apr 10 06:52:33 EDT 2014	Philadelphia (CNN) -- Hazel Donnelly was taking her husband to the doctor when they got a call that their apartment building was on fire. Her first thought was about her 17-year-old cat, Kramer. "I don't have children on my own, so my cat is like my child. I became hysterical," said Donnelly, 50. "What if (he) didn't make it?" Once she arrived home, Donnelly implored firefighters to get her cat, but they were busy trying to control the blaze. Then Red Paw Emergency Relief arrived. The nonprofit assists pets and their owners when disaster strikes. Jen Leary, a former firefighter who founded the group, met with building residents and, once the fire was out, retrieved the animals. "Everyone who received their pets started to cry," said Donnelly. No one was hurt, but the Donnelly's apartment had severe damage, and they weren't sure where they were going to stay. Donnelly was thrilled to learn that Red Paw could provide free short-term care for Kramer. "When (someone) loses everything in a fire, they shouldn't then be forced to lose their pets -- their family members -- as well," Leary said. "Letting them know, 'We'll take care of your animal like it is our own,' it means the world to people." Since 2011, Leary and her group have provided emergency assistance to nearly 1,000 animals and their families throughout southeastern Pennsylvania. Like the Red Cross, but for animals Several years ago, Leary began working as a firefighter and American Red Cross volunteer. She would often arrive at a disaster scene and see traumatized survivors struggling to care for their pets. Do you know a hero? Nominations are open for 2014 CNN Heroes "They'd ask, 'What am I supposed to do with my dog? Who is going to help find my missing cat? How is my pet going to get medical care?" said Leary, 36. "There just wasn't anyone there to help the other part of the family." Pets were sometimes taken to shelters or abandoned. The situation broke Leary's heart. After a devastating fire in 2011, Leary formed her organization and teamed up with the local chapter of the American Red Cross. Now, whenever the Red Cross responds to a disaster and discovers that an animal is involved, they call Leary. She believes it's the only partnership of its kind in the United States -- one she hopes to replicate in other cities. Always on call Leary's group responds 24 hours a day, seven days a week to residential disasters such as fires, gas leaks and building collapses. Leary answers nearly all the calls herself. Her firefighter background gives her unique privileges. "I'm allowed into situations that other people might not be," Leary said. "Once the fire is out and they're just hitting hot spots, I'll talk to the chief, and if they say it's OK, I'll go in." Rescuing animals is only part of what Red Paw does. Through a network of 400 volunteers, boarding facilities and veterinarians, the group provides emergency transportation, shelter, pet supplies and medical care to any pet involved in a disaster -- all for free. Leary's home is the first stop for most animals that don't need immediate medical care. They usually stay with Leary for a few days while they get vaccinated, spayed and neutered, if necessary. Then they are moved to foster homes until their families are ready to take them back. The group's roster of animals has also included rabbits, ferrets, fish, birds, turtles and other reptiles. Reuniting families Red Paw, which runs on donations, provides care for most animals for around 60 days. The group's caseworkers check in with the owners weekly. When families are reunited with their pets, they receive a kit of supplies. "Food, cat litter, bowls, medicine, whatever they need," said Leary. "We want to make sure that they're starting off the right way." If a family can't take their pet back, the group will find the animal an adoptive home. Red Paw cared for the Donnelly's cat for more than three weeks. "I cried when we were reunited," said Donnelly. "They went above and beyond. I am so grateful." For Leary, helping families and their pets is what her work is all about. "My hope is that it's a fresh start, and they can move forward together," she said. "After going through such a sad thing, it's so good to have a happy ending." Want to get involved? Check out the Red Paw Emergency Relief Team website at www.redpawemergencyreliefteam.com and see how to help.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/03/health/cnnheroes-ramirez/index.html	health	Building a healthy community in 'the nation's salad bowl' - CNN.com	2014/04/03	Thursday Apr 3 04:57:13 EDT 2014	Pixley, California (CNN) -- In "the nation's salad bowl," as California's Central Valley is often called, fresh produce grows in abundance. But for many area residents, healthy food is out of reach. "Here we are in this agriculturally rich area and yet people who live here and work here are hungry, are impoverished," said Sarah Ramirez, an educator who grew up in the area. "(Some) are working in the fields that feed the entire country and then they don't have the resources to support them and their health. It's heartbreaking." For the last two years, Ramirez has been on a mission to build a healthier community in her impoverished hometown of Pixley. She and her husband launched Be Healthy Tulare, a grass-roots movement to collect produce that would otherwise go to waste and get it to neighbors in need. The group is named for the county where Pixley is located. "Looking outside and seeing trees just loaded with fruit, I was just feeling like, why aren't we connecting these pieces?" Ramirez said. Do you know a hero? Nominations are open for 2014 CNN Heroes Twice a month, Ramirez and volunteers gather fruit and vegetables from farms and backyard trees. They glean from growers and residents who contact them about their excess produce. The group then provides the bounty to a local food bank that distributes it to families in need. So far this year, Ramirez said, she and her group have collected and donated 20,000 pounds of produce. Connecting the dots Growing up the daughter of farm workers, Ramirez watched her family's health suffer. "In my own family I have witnessed young family members die of preventable diseases," she said. While she was attending college in northern California, she began working at a free health clinic in Sacramento. "I realized that the illnesses and conditions I was seeing there were not that different from what I saw at home. And I began to ask ... why." In Tulare County, 73% of adults are either overweight or obese, according to a recent California Health Interview Survey. Many community members do not own a vehicle or have easy access to public transportation, Ramirez said. The result: People are not getting the quality foods that often grow nearby. "There isn't a full service grocery store that provides the best and most wholesome food at affordable prices here in the community," Ramirez said. While working toward her master's degree and, ultimately, her Ph.D., Ramirez worked part-time as Tulare County's epidemiologist. With a background in public health and cultural studies, she saw the link between food insecurity and the high rates of obesity and diabetes. "I've talked to a lot of people who end up being referred to me ... because they have chronic diseases or their children have chronic diseases," Ramirez said. "I lost count of how many 4-year-olds (I was) seeing with high cholesterol or how many people (came) in due to obesity. I've had moments in the clinic where I have people literally cry because they tell me they can't afford to eat well or eat healthy." When Ramirez set out to help her community, she gathered residents and asked them for their input. By involving them in her efforts, she aims to instill hope and dignity. "We wanted to start a project where the community sees the value of their own experiences," she said. A community of change In addition to salvaging produce, residents learn how to live a healthy life. The group runs a community garden, a fitness program and nutrition classes that Ramirez calls "food labs." "This is an educational opportunity to find out how to use foods we grow in the garden," she said. "I like to have community members offer their own recipes. I welcome the community to teach as well. We want everyone to feel involved." Adults and children participate in the food labs, and generations of families get involved. "Grandma will bring a potluck, and the rest of the family -- and community -- will enjoy the meal," Ramirez said. For Ramirez, it's about creating a sense of belonging and purpose in her community. "It's not about us looking for someone else to come in and save these communities," she said. "It's how we recognize that the people here already matter, that they have value." Want to get involved? Check out the Be Healthy Tulare website at www.behealthytulare.com and see how to help.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/13/us/cnnheroes-carter/index.html	us	Helping women escape 'the life' - CNN.com	2014/03/13	Thursday Mar 13 03:52:36 EDT 2014	St. Paul, Minnesota (CNN) -- As darkness falls, Joy Friedman hits the streets -- the same ones she used to troll for customers while working as a prostitute. "My last trick was turned behind that storefront," she said, gesturing to a nearby building. Now the survivor of sex trafficking cruises these neighborhoods with a different purpose. She's looking for women and girls who are caught up in this lifestyle so she can offer them free condoms and hygiene products. She is also delivering a message: There is help for them if they want it. Friedman works for Breaking Free, a nonprofit that helps women escape prostitution. It's where she got help 13 years ago. "(Prostitution) has been happening forever. And forever, women have just been the victims of it," said Vednita Carter, the organization's founder. "They deserve better." Since 1996, Carter says she has helped more than 6,000 women get the support they need. In the process, she's built an army of survivors who have joined her crusade to end sex trafficking. Lured into 'the life' Carter personally knows about this world. At 18, she was hoping to make money for college when she responded to an advertisement for "dancers." At first, she danced fully clothed, but her bosses and then-boyfriend soon pressured her into stripping and, eventually, prostitution. It was more than a year before Carter called a friend who helped her get back on her feet. Later, she realized how lucky she had been. "The majority of women don't have anyone to call. There is nowhere for them to turn," said Carter, now 60. "That's why I do this work." Do you know a hero? Nominations are open for 2014 CNN Heroes For many of the women Carter helps, "the life" is all they've known. Studies show that the average age of entry into child prostitution is 12 to 14, and many of the girls have been sexually abused or were runaways. Carter works to educate the public and law enforcement to see these women as victims of sex trafficking rather than as criminals. "Prostitution and sex trafficking really are the same thing. It's about buying and selling a human being," she said. Leaving 'the life' behind Carter says 95% of the women she helps struggle with addiction as well as physical abuse, mental trauma, financial instability and shame. "It's a process. If (they've) been in it forever, it's all they know," she said. "They think it's their destiny." Carter's drop-in center provides food, clothing and emotional support to any woman coming off the street, no strings attached. For many women, the first significant step is to participate in a 14-week class called Sisters of Survival. Graduates are honored in a ceremony, marking the start of their new lives. CNN Money: Inside the underground sex economy "They learn that they do have other choices that (they) can make," Carter said. The group also provides permanent and temporary housing, addiction counseling, job skills training and legal assistance. Most of the staffers who work at Breaking Free are survivors of prostitution, making it one of just a few organizations like it in the United States. "I have a purpose now," Friedman said. "I'm a fighter, and I'm going to fight 'til I die for each and every person involved in sexual exploitation." Fighting the demand  Carter believes that sex trafficking won't end until men stop purchasing sexual favors. She established one of the country's first "John Schools" that educates men arrested for solicitation about the impact of their actions. "I'm not here to make you feel like a piece of sh*t, but you've got to feel something," Doris Johnson, a survivor, told a group back in 2012. "That's somebody's daughter." According to Carter's group, only 2% of the men who complete the course reoffend. Carter is considered by many to be a pioneer in the anti-sex trafficking movement, and she is determined to keep fighting as long as she can. "We are really raising an army here. And this is a battle," she said. "It's not OK to buy and sell us. We are not for sale." Want to get involved? Check out the Breaking Free website at www.breakingfree.net and see how to help.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/asia/india-pakistan-talks/index.html	world	India's Modi and Pakistan's Sharif meet, signal steps to rebuild trust - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 01:28:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif hailed his first one-on-one meeting Tuesday with India's newly elected Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a "historic opportunity" for the two nations. A firm but simple handshake had sent a message to the world on Monday that the heads of India and Pakistan were ready to talk. And talk they did on Tuesday, in a meeting at Hyderabad House, a former palace in New Delhi, that lasted almost 50 minutes. Briefing reporters after the encounter, Sharif described the meeting as "good and constructive" and "held in warm and cordial atmosphere." Sharif said both countries should work to overcome their mutual mistrust, and that regional peace and stability were key to achieving their common goals of development. Sharif said he intended "pick up the threads" of the Lahore Declaration, referring to a pledge both countries made in 1999 to cooperate more closely to ease tensions. The Pakistani premier also said that accusations and counter-accusations are not productive -- a comment on the regular political back-and-forth between their two nations. "We agreed that our meeting should be a historic opportunity for both our countries," he said. He added that he was "very pleased" to be in New Delhi at Modi's invitation, having flown in for his counterpart's inauguration on Monday. Sharif was part of the biggest gathering of South Asian leaders ever assembled for an Indian prime minister's swearing-in. Emotional response In a series of tweets posted after Monday's inauguration ceremony, Modi revealed the two had exchanged remarks. Sharif "shared some very emotional things," Modi said, before recounting a rather strange story Sharif told him about how his mother became emotional while watching television images of Modi's own mother offering him sweets. In an interview with Indian television station NDTV, Sharif was reported to have described his attendance at Modi's inauguration as a "great opportunity, a great moment." "He said that this strong mandate frees up leaders on both sides ... to actually turn a new page in the history of India and Pakistan," NDTV's Barkha Dutt said. The visuals touched both Nawaz Sharif ji & his Mother. He told me that after seeing the visuals his Mother got very emotional. Long dispute Relations have been strained between the two countries since 1947, the year the Asian subcontinent partitioned into Islamic Pakistan and Hindu-majority India as it gained independence from British rule. In the decades since, they have fought a number of wars and clashed over Kashmir, an 86,000 square-mile region to the north. Efforts to agree a peace deal took a major step back in 2008 when Pakistani militants attacked the Indian city of Mumbai, killing more than 160 people in a series of co-ordinated assaults. In 2011, the two countries agreed to return to the negotiating table and since then relations have continued to thaw. In 2012, former President Asif Ali Zardari became the first Pakistani leader to visit India in seven years. He held talks with then Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who emerged from the 30-minute meeting saying both nations were willing to find "practical and pragmatic" solutions to their differences. Zardari described the talks as "fruitful." Sharif is said to have expressed the same optimism for the countries' relationship in his interview with NDTV on Monday. "Both governments have a strong mandate. This could help in turning a new page in our relations," Sharif told NDTV. "We should remove fears, mistrust and misgivings about each other. Both countries should rid the region of instability and security that has plagued us for decades." Modi's meeting with Sharif is one of a series of bilateral meetings scheduled with regional leaders on his first day as India's 15th prime minister.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/asia/pakistan-american-doctor-killed/index.html	world	Gunmen on motorbikes kill American doctor in Pakistan - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 05:31:37 EDT 2014	Islamabad, Pakistan (CNN) -- An American doctor was killed when gunmen on motorcycles riddled his body with bullets while he was visiting a graveyard in Pakistan, authorities said. Dr. Mehdi Ali Qamar was a cardiologist and resident of Fairfield, Ohio. He arrived in Rabwah town in Punjab three days ago to provide free medical care to heart patients. The doctor was visiting a local graveyard at sunrise Monday when two waiting gunmen shot him and took off, according to Azhar Abbas, a local police official. The motive of the killing is unclear. Qamar died instantly, and pictures of his bloodied body have gone viral on social media. The doctor, who's also a poet and an artist, was visiting the graveyard with his wife and 3-year-old son when the shooting took place. Qamar is a Pakistan native, but has Canadian and U.S. citizenship. He is the second member of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community killed in Pakistan this year. Ahmadiyya Muslim Community members have been constantly persecuted in Pakistan since 1974, when a constitutional amendment declared them non-Muslim. A decade later, President Muhammad Zia ul Haq's military regime amended Pakistan's penal code. This barred Ahmadis from identifying as Muslims and led to a hate campaign against their community. Khalil Ahmad, 61, was arrested on blasphemy charges and fatally shot this month while in police custody in the Punjab town of Sharqpur. He was shot dead by a man who came in to serve food to prison inmates, according to Saleem Uddin, a spokesman for the Ahmadi community. Qamar's family will travel to Canada to bury his body in Toronto. "He had no enemies," the spokesman said. "He was a gentle man who enjoyed playing cricket." "Our community will continue to provide services to this country, It is this ongoing process of hate and discrimination that needs to be stopped in Pakistan." Chicago pediatrician among 3 killed by Afghan guard  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/02/world/the-cold-war-landmark-documentary/index.html	world	The Cold War: A landmark documentary series - CNN.com	2014/01/02	Thursday Jan 2 05:04:24 EST 2014	Editor's note: To mark the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, CNN is again airing its epic 24-part documentary series on the Cold War. (CNN) -- The struggle between communism and capitalism defined the second half of the 20th Century. The Cold War pitted east against west, pushing the world to the brink of nuclear war. Now, as we approach the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, which brought the era to a close, CNN International is again airing its 24-part series, The Cold War, which first aired in 1998. Giving unparalleled insight from those who lived and fought through the events that defined an era, The Cold War lets viewers see how the events of yesterday have shaped the world of today. The series was commissioned by CNN founder Ted Turner. Award-winning television director Jeremy Isaacs was the executive producer. The series was narrated by Academy Award nominated actor Sir Kenneth Branagh. The programs will air on CNN International every two weeks starting on January 4. Here is a summary of the first 12 episodes. 1 "Comrades" 1917--1945   (January 4 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and January 5 at 02:00 GMT) The Russian Revolution of 1917, followed by the Russian Civil War caused a rift between the Soviet Union and the United States. But when President Franklin Roosevelt took office in 1933, diplomatic and trade relations between the two countries resumed. The relationship was strained yet again after the USSR annexed the Baltic States and signed a non-aggression pact with Nazi Germany. Despite their differences the Soviet Union and the United States found themselves allied after the German invasion of Russia in June 1941. As the war in Europe began to wind down and victory was in sight, the two countries had very different views as to what the post-war world would look like. At the Potsdam Conference, just before the atom bomb was dropped on Japan, it became clear that Stalin wanted to put Eastern Europe under the Soviet sphere of influence, setting the conditions for the Cold War to commence. Episode 1 includes interviews from George F. Kennan, Zoya Zarubina, Hugh Lunghi and George Elsey. 2 "Iron Curtain" 1945--1947   (January 18 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and January 19 at 02:00 GMT) As wartime turned to peacetime, a resurgent United States enjoys economic prosperity while Europe is left to recover from the ravages of war. In the Soviet Union, Stalin has resumed his feared purges and the country is gripped by famine. Germany is forced to cede some of its eastern territory to Poland, and the Germans living in that area are expelled from their homes. Stalin begins to increase his hold on Eastern Europe, installing communist regimes, but decides to stay out of the Greek Civil War. The United Kingdom, exhausted from the war, sees its once-powerful empire go into decline. As food shortages begin to threaten the stability of Europe, a more assertive United States begins to challenge the USSR's influence in both Turkey and Iran. Episode 2 includes interviews from Lord Annan, Sir Frank Roberts and Paul Nitze. 3 "Marshall Plan" 1947--1952   (February 1 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and February 2 at 02:00 GMT) For both selfless and selfish reasons, the United States institutes the Marshall Plan, giving massive amounts of aid to the war-ravaged countries of Europe. Suspicious of American intentions, Stalin prevents countries in the Soviet sphere from taking part in the plan. As a counter to the U.S. plan, Stalin established the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance. In Czechoslovakia, communists seize power in a 1948 coup. While Yugoslav leader Marshal Tito was originally allied with the Soviet Union, he decides to forge his own foreign policy path and accepts aid from the Marshall Plan. After the 1948 Italian elections, the CIA and Catholic Church conspire to push the communist party there from power. The Marshall Plan successfully modernizes Western Europe and strengthens its ties to the United States. Interviewees from episode 3 include Vladimir Yerofeyev, Gianni Agnelli and Giulio Andreotti. 4. "Berlin" 1948--1949   (February 15 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and February 16 at 02:00 GMT) Opposed by the USSR, the United States emphasizes the need to rebuild the German economy. With the introduction of the Deutsche Mark, the Soviets react by tightening checkpoints leading into the French, British, and American sectors of Berlin, ultimately leading to a ground blockade of the city. To keep the city from starvation, the western allies begin the Berlin Airlift, ferrying in supplies by plane. German Communists in Berlin successfully take over the city's municipal government, which causes both the city and country to be divided between east and west. Interviews in Episode 4 include Gail Halvorsen, Sir Freddie Laker and Clark Clifford. 5. "Korea" 1949--1953   (March 1 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and March 2 at 02:00 GMT) Korea was split between the United States and the Soviet Union at the end of World War Two. The Soviets install Kim Il-sung as the leader of the north, while the Americans place Syngman Rhee at the head of the south. In 1950, with the help of the Soviets, North Korea invades South Korea, pushing U.S. and South Korean forces to a city at the southern tip of the Korean peninsula, called Pusan. In response to the invasion, a United Nations force, led by the United States, regains the advantage, driving the communist forces towards the Chinese border. Feeling threatened, and at Stalin's behest, Chinese leader Mao Zedong attacks. This leads to a stalemate in the center of Korea. After protracted negotiations, an armistice is signed. Communism in Korea is contained, but the country is left divided. Interviews in Episode 5 include Lucius D. Battle, Paik Sun Yup and John Glenn. 6. "Reds" 1948--1953   (March 15 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and March 16 at 02:00 GMT) Fear of one another permeates the eastern and western leadership, trickling down to the citizenry. The House Committee on Un-American Activities in the United States begins investigating alleged communist infiltration in the entertainment industry and diplomatic corps. In the USSR, an increasing cult of personality is being built up around Stalin and a more repressive police state is taking hold. In response to Yugoslavia's independent foreign policy, the Soviet Union pushes a series of purges in Prague as a warning to other satellite countries that may stray from Soviet policy. Fear and repression in the USSR hits its zenith right before Stalin's sudden death in 1953. Interviews in Episode 6 include Arthur Kinoy, Ralph de Toledano and Boris Pokrovsky. 7. "After Stalin" 1953--1956   (March 29 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and March 30 at 02:00 GMT) After Stalin's sudden death, Nikita Khrushchev takes over the Soviet Union, reversing some of Stalin's oppressive policies. Khrushchev also reestablishes relations with Yugoslavia and in a secret speech given to the Soviet leadership he denounces Stalin's harsh policies. Meanwhile, West Germany begins to rearm, leading the USSR to establish the Warsaw Pact in response. Trying to maintain Soviet influence in Eastern Europe, Khrushchev sends troops into East Germany, Poland, and Hungary to put down revolts. Interviews in Episode 7 include Anatoly Dobrynin, Charles Wheeler and Sergei Khrushchev. 8. "Sputnik" 1949--1961   (April 5 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and April 6 at 02:00 GMT) Unbeknown to the United States, the Soviets had spied on the U.S. development of the atom bomb, and quickly created their own after the Second World War. This sparked a nuclear arms race between the two superpowers. With the successful Soviet launch of Sputnik, America responds by increasing its development of nuclear armed missiles. A fear takes hold in the United States that the nation is falling behind the Soviets in terms of technology. John F. Kennedy is elected President of the United States in 1960, as the Soviets seem to have a commanding head start in the space race. Interviews in Episode 8 include Joseph Rotblat, Boris Chertok, Andrew Goodpaster, Herbert York and Gherman Titov. 9. "The Wall" 1958--1963   (April 19 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and April 20 at 02:00 GMT) As West Germany and West Berlin become more affluent, East Germans begin to flee their country for their more prosperous neighbor. Khrushchev demands that the British, French, and Americans leave West Berlin, but they decline and the opportunity for a peaceful resolution is dashed when the Soviets walk out on the Paris Summit of 1960 because of the U-2 incident. On the night of August 12, 1962, East German security forces begin to build the Berlin Wall. In response, a tense standoff between U.S. and Soviet forces ensues. In 1963, President Kennedy delivers his famous "I am a Berliner" speech. Interviews in Episode 9 include Anatoly Gribkov, Valentin Falin, Stefan Heym, Egon Bahr, Raymond L. Garthoff and Conrad Schumann. 10. "Cuba" 1959--1962   (May 3 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and May 4 at 02:00 GMT) Fidel Castro seizes power as a result of the Cuban Revolution and becomes an ally of the Soviet Union. He begins to nationalize American assets in Cuba, which leads to the United States introducing an economic boycott of the island nation. The United States sponsors a failed counter revolution on the island with the Bay of Pigs Invasion. The Soviet Union begins to move medium range nuclear missiles into Cuba which sparks the Cuban Missile Crisis. The crisis leads to a U.S. blockade of Cuba, and a near war with the Soviet Union. The crisis ends after secret negotiations between the United States and USSR lead to a deal to remove American missiles from Turkey and Soviet missiles from Cuba. Interviews in Episode 10 include Fidel Castro, Walter Cronkite, Pierre Salinger and Theodore Sorensen. 11. "Vietnam" 1954--1968   (May 17 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and May 18 at 02:00 GMT) Vietnam's former colonial ruler, France, was forced out of the country after losing the Battle of Dien Bien Phu. Refugees began to flood into South Vietnam from the north, after communists there began a strict land reform program. The Viet Cong, with Soviet help, tries to reunify the country through force. America, supporting South Vietnam, becomes more involved after the Gulf of Tonkin incident. As American casualties continue to grow, so does the unpopularity of a war that seems unlikely to be won. After the Tet Offensive, President Lyndon Johnson's clout is severely damaged. A policy of bombing North Vietnam, while also seeking to negotiate a peace, does not work. Interviews for Episode 11 include Robert Macnamara, William Westmoreland, Nguyen Vo Giap, Bui Diem, Jack Valenti and Clark Clifford. 12. "MAD" 1960--1972 (May 31 at 11:00 and 20:00 GMT and June 1 at 02:00 GMT) America's policy of targeting Soviet military bases as a deterrent to war is shown to be ineffective during the Cuban Missile Crisis. A new deterrent policy is thought up by U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, called MAD, or Mutually Assured Destruction. Both Americans and Soviets begin testing and building more nuclear weapons, including submarines that are able to strike should one side destroy the other. Adopting a defensive strategy, the Soviets create an anti-ballistic missile. The United States develops multiple independent warheads to counter this. The danger of the arms race is shown in the Palomares incident. Yet there is some hope of de-escalation after both sides sign the SALT Treaty. Interviews in Episode 12 include Russell E. Dougherty, William Kaufmann and Harold Brown.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/africa/beautiful-buildings-africas-exciting-architects/index.html	world	Beautiful design, smart innovation: Africa's most exciting architects - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 06:14:22 EDT 2014	Every week, Inside Africa takes its viewers on a journey across Africa, exploring the true diversity and depth of different cultures, countries and regions. (CNN) -- Africa is a land under construction. Last year, over $220 billion was spent on all kinds of building projects in the continent. While foreign architects have clamored to make their mark in the region, a range of local talent has also stepped forward to shape their landscape (and in some cases, export their aesthetic abroad). "Africa is constantly looking to the North. It doesn't always look in its own backyard, but the truth is, there's a lot of very good indigenous knowledge on the continent," says Iain Low, a professor of architecture at the University of Cape Town and editor the South African edition of Architectural Digest. In celebration of that knowledge, we take a look at some of Africa's most exciting contemporary architects. David Adjaye Born in Tanzania, "starchitect" David Adjaye is the son of a Ghanaian diplomat and spent his childhood traveling the globe before settling in Britain at the age of nine. The multi-award winning architect (he has scooped up numerous accolades from both the Royal Institute of British Architects and the American Institute of Architects) has been tapped for a number of high-profile projects over the years, most recently the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington DC and the Mass Extinction Memorial Observatory in the Isle of Portland, England. Though Adjaye's projects span the globe, he has numerous projects in Africa, including designing the Princes Town resort, in Ghana. In 2012, he opened an office in Ghana's capital, Accra. Kunle Adeyemi Kunle Adeyemi, the Nigerian-born founder of NLE Architects, made waves last year with the completion of one of his designs: a floating, three-story A-frame school built in Makoko, a slum on the waterfront of Lagos, Nigeria. Bobbing on top of about 250 empty barrels, the school is designed to avoid many of the problems associated with frequently rising water levels. The structure is also green: it makes use of rainwater collection, and solar panels provide the electricity. Though the school accommodates a mere 100 elementary school children, it has potential to act as a model for water-bound communities the world over. "It didn't start as a big idea, I was trying to solve a small problem the community had. I realized the problem I was trying to solve was a problem for a larger part of the world," Adeymi told CNN last year. "We're now seeing people take interest in this across Africa." Read: Africa's hotshot photographers Diebedo Francis Kere Diebedo Francis Kere's humble beginnings in the small village of Gando, Burkina Faso, have granted him a useful alternate perspective on the architectural needs of his countrymen. "Kere is deeply grounded in the values of African society," says Low. "He's really the one person trying to transcend tradition and find a new kind of direction that locates architecture within the global self." Though his firm, Kere Architecture, is based in Berlin, he is also committed to reinvesting his knowledge back into his home country. Burkina Faso's landscape is dotted with schools he designed -- a revolutionary approach that replaces concrete with earth bricks and employs a corrugated steel roof that is raised to allow air for better circulation. The idea is twofold: firstly, a cooler classroom will help improve the student's concentration. Secondly, by employing local materials and labor, Kere helps empower the local community. His efforts have earned him a series of awards, including the prestigious Aga Khan Award for Architecture. Mokena Makeka For Cape Town architect Mokena Makeka, design is not merely aesthetic; it's democratizing. In both his redesign of the Railway Police Station and the Cape Town Railway Station, Makeka has been significant in putting forth a post-apartheid aesthetic (for example, for the railway station he removed the two separate entrances that -- during the apartheid era -- had been used used to segregate black and white passengers). Makeka Design Lab, of which Makeka is the principal and founder, has been the recipient of several awards, including two Merit Awards from the Cape Institute for Architecture. Though Cape Town is still very close to Makeka's heart, he dreams of having international influence as well. In 2008, he was part of the prestigious Ordos 100 (Herzog & de Meuron handpicked 100 architects globally to put forth designs for the industrial Chinese city). Y Tsai Heading up the Y Tsai Design Studio, Cape Town architect Y Tsai also believes in using architecture as a means of social reform. In 2012, he won a Loerie Award for converting an old shipping container into a classroom in rural South Africa. The colorful classroom featured an outdoor jungle gym, windows to allow for cross ventilation, a steel roof that can collect rain water, and an outdoor amphitheater for school events. "Tsai does a lot of really interesting, innovative work with containers," notes Low. Read this: Africa's hottest new fashion designers Mick Pearce Zimbabwean architect Mick Pearce is a leader when it comes to environmental design. His mission has always been to create buildings that are not only sustainable, but low-maintenance, low-cost and which blend into their natural surroundings. Nature is often a great source of inspiration for Pearce. One of his best-known buildings, for instance, the Eastgate Shopping Center in Harare, Zimbabwe, employed a sustainable temperature control system, using tubes in the walls to move air through the building, based on the system employed by termites. He used a similar model for CH2, a mixed-use development in Melbourne, Australia. SAOTA Cape Town-based SAOTA -- manned by partners Stefan Antoni, Philip Olmesdahl and Greg Truen -- has become synonymous with sleek, contemporary, high-end design. The firm does a good business in high-end resorts, swank private residences and glimmering commercial centers. "Their architecture is very glam, very Wallpaper-ish," says Low. "They have built for a lot of African clients, mainly the elite." The studio, which has a team of 90 designers and technicians, an in-house CGI team and a branch dedicated to furniture and interior design, has pulled in a slew of awards. Most recently, they won an Award of Excellence and an Award of Merit from the South African Institute of Architects for a vacation house in Voelklip, in the Western Cape, a luxurious residence with a large garden and courtyard pool that measures a mere 45-feet wide. Nina Cohen and Fiona Garson South African architects Nina Cohen and Fiona Garson could very well be in line for some awards this year for renovating a former gas station, car dealership and dental school into the Wits Art Museum, according to Low: "They turned it into something beautiful and poetic," he says. Read: Savannah from a bird's-eye view Read: Alien landing site, ancient monument, or something else?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/tech/innovation/the-smog-guzzling-buildings-pollution/index.html	tech	The smog-guzzling buildings fighting deadly pollution - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 05:31:03 EDT 2014	Vital Signs is a monthly program bringing viewers health stories from around the world. (CNN) -- Air pollution is now the biggest global environmental killer, the WHO has confirmed. The seven million deaths it caused in 2012 exceeded the victims of cigarettes, and is more than double previous estimates. Air pollution in over half of 1,600 cities surveyed is now above safe limits of Particulate Matter (PM), with the highest cost borne by the poorer regions of South-East Asia and the Western Pacific. In Delhi, found to have the worst pollution in the world, around 10,000 people die prematurely each year because of pollution. Most of these perish through strokes, heart conditions, and cancer, and the issues are multiplying. "We are now seeing a large number of lung impairments and respiratory problems among children," says Anumita Roy Chowdhury, head of the Clean Air Program at India's Center for Science and Environment. "There is a strong correlation with emergency hospitalizations in winter when the pollution is high." Read this: Top 20 most polluted cities in the world High-tech solutions But although there is widespread agreement that restricting emissions is an effective solution, badly affected cities are increasingly turning to technological solutions. The Manuel Gea Gonzlez Hospital in Mexico City unveiled a "smog-eating" facade last year, covering 2,500 square meters with a titanium dioxide coating that reacts with light to neutralize elements of air pollution. Designers claim it negates the effects of 1,000 cars each day. An even grander project, the Palazzo Italia, will use similar materials over 13,000 square meters across six floors when it opens in Milan in 2015. Dutch scientists have also adapted the system to roads, claiming this can reduce pollution by 45%. The material is not prohibitively expensive -- adding as little as 4-5% to construction costs. But the impact of such buildings has been limited to their immediate location, and efforts to develop the concept have led to more novel, personalized solutions. The first pollution-eating poem appeared this May in Sheffield, England, a 20-meter banner of Simon Armitage's "In Praise of Air," coated with titanium dioxide nano-particles that can counteract around 20 cars' worth of pollution each day. While it is a creative tool for promoting a local poetry festival, it also serves as proof of concept that the technology can be incorporated into practically any textile, and will be reproduced on several more banners and posters in the coming months. But the ultimate goal is to render us all air-purifying units. The poem is an offshoot of Catalytic Clothing, a collaboration between designer Helen Storey and polymer chemist Tony Ryan that aims to incorporate titanium dioxide nano-particles into laundry detergent, so that our outfits are coated. "Clothes are the way to do it because they are ubiquitous," says Ryan. "In the city of Sheffield we need to get rid of 1,000 tons of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) each year to comply with air quality regulations, which is around three tons per day." The concept relies on mass participation. Ryan says that one person wearing clothes washed in the detergent could remove 5-6 grams of NO2 from the air every day -- which means Sheffield's population of just over half a million could collectively enable the city to meet its NO2 target. Read: This machine makes drinking water from thin air One drawback is that the laundered material would not distinguish between atmospheric impurities, so that expensive perfume would be neutralized as well as smog, which has been an issue for manufacturers. There have also been suggestions that the particles could be an irritant, although Ryan -- who has been testing the product on himself -- denies this. Personal protection A more immediate, easier option is becoming available through a personal pollution monitor. The MicroPEM sensor developed by the Research Triangle Institute (RTI) picks up a range of exposure data to help the user manage risk. Early trials have focused on detecting indoor pollution from cook stoves in the developing world, which account for over two million deaths per year through exposure to toxic smoke, most commonly through respiratory diseases. But the device could be applied to a wide range of environments, to indicate a wide range of health threats. "For many diseases we haven't determined whether one component (of pollution) is more causal than another," says lead developer and RTI environmental exposure expert Dr. Charles Rodes. "But this can measure for diseases with rapid responses like asthma or pulmonary disease where it doesn't have to be specific, we just measure total exposure to particles of a certain size (PM)." In the case of asthma, among the most common pollution-related conditions, an attack can follow soon after exposure, and early warning can save lives. Rodes believes a personalized approach to monitoring can reach the people most vulnerable to air pollution better than stationary systems. "It's the intersection between the most exposed and the most susceptible that tells you most about the environmental threat -- and personal level measurement is about the only way to find out." The scientist is confident that the technology is moving from the lab environment toward public availability, following trials at academic institutions in the United States, United Kingdom and China. The units currently cost around $2,000 but will come down with demand, although there may be trade-offs to make it accessible. "If you want something that's easy to use it tends not to be as accurate or specific," says Rodes. Nonetheless, its makers claim the MicroPEM will be the most sophisticated mobile pollution measurement tool available. While smartphone apps are proliferating, their functions are basic. Knowledge is power Biomimicry could also provide a meaningful sensor. Zoologist Dr. Fritz Vollrath of the University of Oxford has worked with spiders to draw inspiration from their materials and methods, and believes the sensitivity of their webs is unsurpassed. "The thinness and electrical charge of the fibers allows them to catch any particles flying through the air, and the liquid coating is like a glue (that binds them)," says Vollrath. The web is sensitive enough to capture "individual spores and atoms." Vollrath believes a synthesized silk web would be a perfect tool for capture and measurement of pollutants, to reveal the extent of danger in the atmosphere. This could be tested by a chemical probe to provide a detailed breakdown of what has been caught. He envisages such a web could be used anywhere from disaster zones to hospitals and homes -- "a mesh near the source of pollution -- such as over the chimney." His concepts are already being realized. Crowdsourcing and citizen science are also offering solutions. Chinese innovators launched the FLOAT project that gave concerned citizens the chance to take air quality readings using pollution-sensing kites, and then submit the results to a database for findings to be shared. Similar citizen alliances are taking to the skies from London to Philadelphia. For all the futuristic possibilities, this may be the most effective action citizens can take. "Putting data out means more accountability," says Dr. Carlos Dora, Coordinator of Interventions for Healthy Environment at the WHO, pointing out that governments can reverse the effects of pollution if they are committed -- such as in Berlin, where private cars have been restricted in some areas, or Beijing, where factories scaled down for the 2008 Olympics, triggering a marked improvement in air quality. The full truth, with the pressure that brings to bear on authorities that are still empowered to effect change, could yet reverse the deadly plague of pollution. Read: Hunting down 'fiery serpent' disease Read: Man cuts off fingers, makes new ones Read: From toilet to tap -- drinking recycled waste water  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/20/world/europe/russian-billionaire-dmitry-rybolovlev-divorce/index.html	world	Divorce reportedly costs Russian oligarch $4.5 billion, with a B - CNN.com	2014/05/20	Tuesday May 20 12:03:19 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's being called the most expensive divorce in the history of ... well, marriage. Russia's Dmitry Rybolovlev, 47, earned the dubious honor when Geneva, Switzerland's Court of First Instance last week ordered the 47-year-old billionaire to pay his wife, Elena, about 4 billion Swiss francs, according to CNN's French affiliate BFM. That's a little more than $4.5 billion (little being a relative term). The couple was married for 23 years but have been engaged in divorce proceedings since 2008, BFM reported, citing the Swiss daily newspaper Le Temps. Rybolovlev, who owns the French soccer team AS Monaco, which finished second in Ligue 1 this season, is No. 148 on Forbes' list of billionaires. His estimated worth is $8.8 billion, according to Forbes. Known lately for real estate moves -- including the purchases of a $300 million penthouse in Monaco and a $98 million Palm Beach, Florida, mansion owned by Donald Trump, along with his daughter's purchases of an $88 million New York apartment and the Greek island of Skorpios -- Rybolovlev made his original fortune in fertilizer, according to Forbes. He and his father, a scientist, started their business in 1990, and Rybolovlev began buying shares of industrial enterprises in 1992, Forbes reported. In 1995, he was named chairman of the board of Uralkali, Russia's top producer of potassium fertilizers, Forbes said. He sold his stake in Uralkali for $6.5 billion in 2010 and procured a controlling stake in AS Monaco the following year. The divorce puts Rybolovlev in rarefied company, as only French businessman and art dealer Alec Wildenstein and Bernie Ecclestone, the top dog in Formula One racing, have been reported to shell out more than $1 billion in divorce proceedings. 11 intriguing things owned by wealthy Russians World's 'most expensive divorce' set to halve oligarch's fortune CNN's Tara Kangarlou contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/14/world/asia/japan-casinos/index.html	world	Is Japan betting big on casinos? - CNN.com	2014/05/14	Wednesday May 14 09:57:04 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- While Japan's economy continues to falter, lawmakers are betting big that the casino industry can swoop in and lift it out of the doldrums. Gambling is currently illegal in Japan, though many play pachinko, a quintessentially Japanese game often likened to pinball. While cash prizes are forbidden, many pachinko parlors work on a gray economy where prizes are exchanged -- off-premises -- for hard currency. This week, a major conference focusing on the future of the industry opened in Tokyo. It comes at a time when key legislation is being pushed through Japan's parliament that could pave the way for the development of a large-scale gaming industry in the country. "There is ample chance that the bill will be debated in parliament (this session) and will be passed by both houses," said Toru Mihara, Director of the Institute of Amusement Industry Studies, Osaka University of Commerce and a key speaker at this week's Japan Gaming Congress. Tokyo, along with Japan's second city, Osaka, is being eyed as a key destination for so-called "Integrated Resorts" (IR), which would combine casinos with hotel, luxury retail and entertainment complexes. The industry has the potential to generate tens of billions of dollars for Japan, attracting massive investment from overseas -- in particular from Las Vegas-based companies and Asian gaming operators -- and boosting its tourism numbers. The next Singapore? "The easy comparison to make is with the Singapore market," said Michael Paladino, Gaming, Lodging & Leisure Sector Head at Fitch Ratings. "The success of the Singapore market and its ability to generate non-gaming revenues, much more so than the Macau market. That is a lot easier to sell politically. Tourism creates the meetings, incentives and retail. Everything else that comes with it aside from gambling." Part of the urgency in getting the legislation ratified in this Diet session comes from the desire to keep the gaming project concurrent with the opening of the Tokyo Olympics in 2020. "The government is looking at the Olympics and IR as a one- two in terms of elevating Japan's tourism presence and then really going after foreign inbound visitors," Grant Govertsen, principal and analyst at Union Gaming Research Macau, told CNN. "Inbound foreign visitation is fairly anemic on an annual basis for such a developed and interesting country. I think that's the key there. It has nothing to do with economics -- using IRs as a means to help fund Olympics development." With casinos opening up across Asia, from new developments in Cambodia and the Philippines to Korea, Singapore and China's gambling mecca Macau, eyes are firmly fixed on this side of the world for the industry's expansion. Japan is seen as a huge untapped market and one which, unlike Macau for example, would not be heavily reliant on inbound tourism to fulfill its potential. Homegrown crowd Much of the investment interest is pegged on Japanese gamblers flocking to their own casinos -- Mihara suggests that upwards of 80% of Japanese casinos visitors could be locals, and this stable, relatively disposable income-rich market is certainly a selling point, as it is likely that the region's biggest gambling market may choose to shun Japanese casinos. Historical and cultural tensions between China and Japan -- Japanese aggression during the Second World War remains a highly political issue across much of Asia -- may dampen Chinese enthusiasm for Japanese travel. "We will not be too dependent on Chinese, like Macau," said Mihara. "Given the political relationship, there is a potential risk (if Japanese casinos were too dependent on Mainland visitors)." The strength of the domestic market could have a knock-on effect to other gaming destinations in the region, particularly South Korea, which could see a drop-off in Japanese gamblers traveling overseas. Untapped potential The interest from casino companies -- Las Vegas-based companies like Sands but also Asian operators -- is palpable. The bidding process, which will begin if and when the law is passed, will lead to potentially the most expensive resorts ever built, with some figures suggesting anything up to a $10 billion investment. The numbers involved in Japan are much higher than they are elsewhere in Asia, largely due to the high price of land. Nonetheless, the opportunity to break into a new market is seemingly too tempting to resist. "It will be highly sought after from all the major global players, as (potentially) the second-largest market in Asia, from a gaming revenue point," said Paladino. Given potentially low returns, thanks to eyewatering capital expenditure including land and construction costs and higher wages, along with a potentially more punitive tax climate than neighboring countries, the risk that gaming operations are taking on appear to be higher. "You're going to have to spend a lot more money to get the same amount of casino, it is not clear that the return profile will be as good as Macau or Singapore, but it could very well be," said Govertsen. Pachinko threatened? Analysts are divided on whether the influx of gaming tables will affect the pachinko industry, which has seen the development of thousands of parlors dotted across the country. Regardless, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party -- along with a handy majority of cross-party support -- sees the arrival of legalized gambling in Japan as a boon for the country's coffers. "Clearly, there can be a significant economic stimulus associated with the development of IR," said Govertsen. "From a taxing and jobs perspective, it could meaningful for Japan."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/15/travel/japan-moomin-cafe/index.html	travel	Japan's 'anti-loneliness' cafe goes viral - CNN.com	2014/05/15	Thursday May 15 06:01:48 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Talk about creative coping mechanisms for being alone -- from the blogger who photographs selfies with his imaginary girlfriend to the company that takes your stuffed animals on vacation without you, Japan appears to be cornering the market on accommodating solo travelers. You can now add the "anti-loneliness" Moomin House Cafe to the menagerie of "wait, what?" strokes of Japanese brilliance. We first wrote about the Moomin House Cafe in 2012, but the cafe went viral a few weeks ago and has since been besieged with customers wanting a taste of its "anti-loneliness" magic. CNN's Yuki Arawaka paid a visit (see gallery photos) following the cafe's new surge in popularity. To save its lone customers from the awkward perils of solo dining, the cafe kindly seats diners with stuffed animal companions called Moomins, a family of white hippo-like characters created by Finnish illustrator and writer Tove Jansson. Moomins are brought to each table so that patrons -- solo or in groups -- can have a turn sitting with them. Weekday mornings are the quietest time, while weekends are packed all day long. Sukiyabashi Jiro: The world's best sushi bar Respecting Moomin culture To honor the characters' heritage, Moomin House Cafe serves bread made from Finnish rye, and offers food and pastries in the form of Moomin characters. Cafe staff say there have been long lines almost every day since its "lonely-friendly" concept went viral. It's a long overdue turn in the spotlight -- the cafe has been open since 2003. There are now three Moomin Cafe locations in Japan -- the Tokyo Dome location is especially popular with Dome concert goers. Beloved for their whimsical adventures and diverse array of characters, Moomins are celebrated in their home country of Finland and anime-obsessed Japan. This year marks the 100th anniversary of the birth of their creator, Tove Jansson, who was born in 1914 and died in 2001. A Moomin theme park is a popular destination in Finland. Another one is slated to open next year in Japan. Moomin House Cafe, Tokyo Dome City LaQua shop, 1-1-1 Kasuga, Bunkyo, Tokyo; +81 3 5842 6300; 8 a.m.-10 p.m. 11 extremely practical Japan travel tips  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/13/world/americas/christopher-columbus-santa-maria/index.html	world	Wreck off Haiti may be Christopher Columbus' flagship Santa Maria - CNN.com	2014/05/13	Tuesday May 13 01:58:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Is a sunken shipwreck off Haiti the long-lost remains of the Santa Maria, Christopher Columbus' flagship from his first voyage to the Americas? Underwater explorer Barry Clifford, who led a team that found and investigated the wreck, says he's confident it is. "Every single piece fits. Now, of course, we have to go through the whole archeological process, and we plan to do that within the next few months, but I feel very confident that we've discovered the site," he told CNN. "This is the ship that changed the course of human history," Clifford said. If the claim is confirmed, it would go down as one of the most significant underwater archaeological discoveries ever. "It is the Mount Everest of shipwrecks for me," said Clifford, 68. But it isn't a new find for him. Clifford's announcement involves a wreck he and his team investigated in 2003. A cannon was found as part of the wreck. But, Clifford told CNN, archaeologists at the time "misdiagnosed" the cannon. Two years ago, after having researched the type of cannon used in Columbus' time, "I woke up in the middle of the night and said, 'Oh my God,' " Clifford told CNN. He realized the 2003 find might have been the one. A couple of weeks ago, he returned to the wreck with a group of experts. The team measured and photographed the ship. But some items, including the cannon, had been looted from the ship in the intervening years, Clifford said. The ship "still has attributes that warrant an excavation to determine the site's identity," archaeologist Charles Beeker of Indiana University said Tuesday. "Barry may have finally discovered the 1492 Santa Maria." The evidence, Beeker said, is "very compelling." The ship was found in the exact area where Columbus said the Santa Maria ran aground more than 500 years ago, Clifford said. The wreck is stuck on a reef off Haiti's northern coast, 10 to 15 feet beneath the water's surface. Clifford plans to go back to Haiti next month to meet with authorities and decide what steps to take next. Wrecked in 1492 It was the flagship of Columbus' small fleet that set sail from Spain in August 1492 under the sponsorship of King Ferdinand II and Queen Isabella I. The voyage aimed to find a westward route to China, India and the gold and spice islands of the East. But the land the sailors set eyes on in October 1492 was an island in the Caribbean. Among the islands on which Columbus set foot was Hispaniola, which is divided between Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Columbus established a fort in Haiti. That December, the Santa Maria accidentally ran aground off the island's coast. Some planks and provisions from the wrecked ship, which was about 117 feet (36 meters) long, were used by the garrison at the fort, according to Encyclopaedia Britannica. Columbus set off back to Spain with the two remaining ships, the Nina and the Pinta, in January 1493. Archaeological study needed Archaeologists will have to excavate and examine the ship found off Haiti in order to determine whether it is, in fact, the Santa Maria. Most of the ship is in shape and will be possible to excavate with the help of the Haitian government, said Clifford, who made a name for himself salvaging pirate ships off the coasts of Cape Cod and Madagascar. His team has used sophisticated metal detectors and sonar scans to study the remains. The ship is the right size, he said, and stones found at the site match the kind from the part of Spain where the ship was built. "I don't think any of us should take for granted what has been written," Clifford said. "This is a tremendous touchstone to that period in time. We don't know what secrets are going to be held on the ship." Did Phoenicians beat Columbus by 2,000 years? After 125 years, ship rediscovered at bottom of San Francisco Bay What caused this Civil War submarine to sink? Piece of ironclad brought to surface Shipwreck found on Gulf floor while thousands watched CNN's Ronni Berke and Miguel Marquez contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/13/world/can-art-really-get-any-more-expensive/index.html	world	Can art really get any more expensive? - CNN.com	2014/05/13	Tuesday May 13 07:14:08 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Christie's launches the latest auction at its New York showroom this evening, gavels will fall. Prices, however, will almost certainly rise ... and rise. For its Post-war Masters and Contemporary Evening Sale, one of this year's headline art auctions, Christie's has on offer masterpieces including Francis Bacon's Three Studies for a Portrait of John Edwards, Gerhard Richter's Abstraktes Bild (712), and Mark Rothko's Untitled during a night expected to fetch well north of $200 million. Christie's estimates that the Richter work will command a price of between $22 and $28 million, the Rothko between $40 and $60 million, and the Bacon triptych around $80 million. The house has reason to be upbeat with its estimates. On May 12, during an auction titled "If I Live I'll See You Tuesday," buyers from 26 countries splashed out on contemporary works by artists including Jean-Michel Basquiat, Jeff Koons and Richard Prince. Christie's sold $134.6 million of art in an hour. Speaking to journalists after the show, Christie's Chief Executive Officer Steven Murphy suggested that buyers from emerging markets are helping keep the market vibrant. "The number of people around the world interested in acquiring art at all levels is exploding," he said. "We are not in a bubble." Viola Raikhel-Bolot, the director of global art advisory firm 1858 Ltd Art Advisory, believes international buyers will turn out en masse for tonight's auction. "The place to buy post-war and contemporary art seems to remain New York," she says. "Collectors from Latin America and Asia frequent the galleries here and follow these sales very closely." Read "The dark side of creativity: Depression + anxiety x madness = genius?" Boom times In recent years sales of fine art have trended in one direction: up. According to the annual report of the European Fine Art Fair, global sales of fine art and antiques jumped 7.5% in 2013 to $65.5 billion, just under the all-time high set in 2007. This includes auction sales and estimates of anonymous sales. In 2013, Christie's tallied more than $7 billion in sales, breaking its own record for the fourth consecutive year. In November 2013, a Christie's auction in New York brought in $782,368,375, the highest auction series in art market history. Jeff Koons's Balloon Dog sold for $58.4 million, making it the most valuable work sold at auction by a living artist and at the same auction, Francis Bacon's triptych of Lucian Feud, sold for $142 million. Andrew Renton, director of London's Marlborough Contemporary gallery and a professor of curating at Goldsmiths College at the University of London, points out that there are many more deals going on in private, and that some likely outstrip existing records. "We've got an economic model which is slightly contradictory," Renton says. "Prices seem to set the value. Overpaying is almost the best thing you can do, because you start to define your own market." But this isn't a free-for-all. He believes buyers with deep pockets want superlative works that delve into our psyche. "Bacon works on that model," he says. "He gets into the soul of the anxious human being. And in Rothko the abstraction is a reflection of the darkness and the contemporary condition. "People talk about these things in monetary terms. You don't get to that monetary value unless there is a correlation with cultural value." As classic works become more scarce, their value will continue to rise -- as will the hoopla surrounding them. "I do not believe there is a price ceiling," Renton says. "In our lifetime we will see a billion dollar work of art."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/europe/france-migrants/index.html	world	Camps dismantled after French police standoff with migrants in Calais - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:30:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Police in northern France moved in Wednesday on makeshift migrant camps near the port of Calais, prompting a standoff with the defiant residents -- many of whom have fled conflicts in Syria, Sudan and Eritrea. By late afternoon, a CNN producer observed that the migrants' tents had all been destroyed. One activist told CNN police were responsible. About a dozen police officers remained, along with 50 to 60 migrants who didn't know where to go. A local prefect reportedly told the migrants they can stay at the camp until Thursday. But Thursday is Ascension Day, a public holiday, so it's not clear if the migrants will be cleared out before Friday. Hundreds of migrants had gathered in the ramshackle camps, some seeking to claim asylum in France and others hoping to find a way to reach British soil. Mattheu Adt of international humanitarian organization Medecins du Monde, told CNN from one of the camps that police had asked the migrants to move to an undisclosed location, but that the migrants were refusing. Authorities also asked the migrants to shower and decontaminate their clothes, amid concern over an outbreak of the contagious skin condition, scabies, he said. Migrants refused to do that, Adt said, because of concerns their tattered tents would be gone when they returned. "They fear they will be arrested at the showers," said Ccile Bossy, an activist with Medecins du Monde. She said migrants were given scabies medication Tuesday night but didn't understand what it was for. Adt said the makeshift camp where he is located housed about 600 people, roughly half of them Syrian, and between 200 and 300 Eritrean and Sudanese. A spokesman for the charity Secours Catholique in Calais confirmed that police had arrived at about 6:30 a.m. local time at a camp and asked the migrants there to board buses to go to "decontamination" areas. Many of the migrants refused, he said. Earlier, police destroyed another camp -- which housed about 300 people -- with bulldozers, he said. The migrants have been involved in discussions with authorities but don't know where to go, he said. Official: Dismantling under way An official in Calais told CNN that authorities planned to dismantle the migrants' makeshift camps by the end of Thursday. Roughly 550 migrants lived in those camps, said Georges Bos, the associate chief of staff of the Pas-de-Calais prefecture -- the local branch of the French government. "By tonight there will be no possibility left to go to these camps," he said. Bos said authorities had offered to take the migrants by bus to places where they could shower, adding that dismantling the camps was necessary to prevent further spread of scabies. He said that the prefect of the Pas-de-Calais region had told migrants their immigration status would not be checked and that no arrests would be made. It's not the first time French authorities have sought to move on the migrants who congregate in the area around Calais, many hoping to smuggle themselves into Britain inside freight trucks going across the English Channel. A camp in Sangatte was dismantled in 2002 and another known as the Jungle was broken up in 2009. But after each clearance effort, new makeshift camps spring up. 'Deafening silence' Medecins du Monde is one of a number of humanitarian and rights groups that signed an open letter to French Prime Minister Manuel Valls on Tuesday voicing concern over the plight of the migrants. "The situation in Calais is worsening in a deafening silence," it said. "About 700 foreigners, for the most part of Syrian, Afghan and Eritrean origin, fleeing conflicts, violence and persecution, are installed in the town." About 550 of those migrants are living in makeshift camps, the letter said, having claimed asylum in France or waiting to attempt the crossing to Britain. "They live in catastrophic sanitary conditions which have encouraged the development of a scabies epidemic." The groups were "stunned" last week to learn that authorities planned to clear the camps and tackle the scabies outbreak on Wednesday, the letter said -- without coming up with any alternative place of shelter for the large majority of people concerned. "We can anticipate the effects of this expulsion ... inappropriate medical care, people wandering on the streets of Calais, daily police checks, violence, despair and the taking of growing risks to attempt a passage to the United Kingdom, which, since the start of the year, have already caused the deaths of several exiles," it said. The groups urge the French government to come up with a plan to tackle the sanitary situation in the camps while living up to its responsibility to protect the migrants on its soil. The letter was also sent to the French interior minister and the minister for health and social affairs. Would-be immigrants storm Spanish enclave on Moroccan coast Italy's Navy rescues 6,000 migrants in just four days The deadliest trek: Dying in the desert CNN's Stephanie Halasz and journalist Bastien Inzaurralde contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/12/opinion/dirty-water-child-killer/index.html	opinion	Dirty water: The child killer we can stop - CNN.com	2014/05/12	Monday May 12 06:49:10 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Barbara Frost has been Chief Executive of WaterAid since September 2005. Prior to joining WaterAid, Frost was Chief Executive of Action on Disability and Development for nine years working with disability organizations in 12 countries throughout Africa and Asia. (CNN) -- Imagine for a moment that we lived in a world where two million children under the age of five were dying every year of diseases that were entirely preventable. Imagine that this world was divided in two, where in one half children were free from this scourge and the other half lived in fear of these diseases which threatened their families every single day. "Mostly it is our children that are affected. I lost two of my children, a boy and a girl and my sister also lost two of her children; two boys. The first one of mine was two years and the recent one who died just two weeks old." These aren't the lines from a dystopian Brothers Grimm story, or a page lifted from the dark ages of our history. These are the words of Yenge Koroma, who lives in Vaama in Sierra Leone. This is our world today. Globally nearly a third of under-five child deaths are attributable to just two diseases, pneumonia and diarrhea. Between them, they account for around two million young lives a year, with nearly 90% of these deaths occurring in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. Last year, UNICEF and the World Health Organization launched a Joint Action Plan, which WaterAid strongly supports, to help tackle these two child killers together. These organizations recognized that alongside vaccines and treatments like oral rehydration salts, access to safe drinking water, basic sanitation and good hygiene are vital in helping to prevent these diseases. As Yenge puts it: "The cause of the sicknesses is the water we are drinking. That water is polluted. There is dirt in the water and sometimes fish die in the water mysteriously. Sometimes we launder in that water; we use the water as toilet. All this is really making the water unhygienic but we have no other source. It is the same water we are drinking and that water I believe is really the cause of the sicknesses in this community." Her story is far from unique. Globally 1 in 10 people are without safe drinking water, while over a third of the planet (36%) goes without basic sanitation. In Sub-Saharan Africa the situation is that much more desperate, with 35% going without an improved water source, and a staggering 70% without safe sanitation. This lack of access to such basic and essential services has devastating consequences for people's health. According to the U.N. as many as half the hospital beds in the developing world are being used at any one time by people suffering from waterborne diseases. Economists at the World Health Organization have calculated that a lack of access to these services is costing developing countries $35 billion every year, in healthcare costs alone. When looking at the full range of productivity losses this figure jumps to $260 billion. This devastating loss of life and the economic costs can be tackled if governments, civil society and the private sector work together to address this crisis. Read: From toilet to tap -- drinking recycled waste water Addressing this crisis requires collaboration and innovative partnerships and WaterAid works with organizations like the U.N., the World Health Organization, with governments, businesses, academia and our colleagues and partners around the world to advocate for the step change in approach we need to see to get these services out to the communities that desperately need them. WaterAid works in Sierra Leone and 25 other countries around the world, providing some of the world's poorest people with access to these basic services. Since 1981 WaterAid has reached 19.2 million people with safe water and 15.1 million people with sanitation, and we are proud to be the world's largest international NGO focused entirely on water, sanitation and hygiene. We are approaching a crucial point. Next year, governments from around the world will finalize their negotiations to decide on a new set of Sustainable Development Goals to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030. These goals will help to shape the progress and priorities in the developing world for the next decade and a half. WaterAid believes that these new Sustainable Development Goals should include a dedicated commitment from governments for everyone everywhere to have access to water, sanitation and hygiene. Access to these services is the crucial first step in tackling killer diseases, and in helping lift people out of debilitating poverty. A third of the U.N. member countries have already signaled that this should be a priority, and we agree. Access to sanitation, water and hygiene are fundamental for a decent and productive life. We must not lose this opportunity to act and help end preventable child deaths. Read: Hunting the 'fiery serpent': The quest to wipe out Guinea worm Read: This machine makes drinking water from thin air  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/24/tech/innovation/machine-makes-drinking-water-from-air/index.html	tech	This machine makes drinking water from thin air - CNN.com	2014/04/24	Thursday Apr 24 06:02:15 EDT 2014	Vital Signs is a monthly program bringing viewers health stories from around the world. Tel Aviv, Israel (CNN) -- Water. A vital nutrient, yet one that is inaccessible to many worldwide. The World Health Organization reports that 780 million people don't have access to clean water, and 3.4 million die each year due to water-borne diseases. But an Israeli company thinks it can play a part in alleviating the crisis by producing drinking water from thin air. Water-Gen has developed an Atmospheric Water-Generation Units using its "GENius" heat exchanger to chill air and condense water vapor. "The clean air enters our GENius heat exchanger system where it is dehumidified, the water is removed from the air and collected in a collection tank inside the unit," says co-CEO Arye Kohavi. "From there the water is passed through an extensive water filtration system which cleans it from possible chemical and microbiological contaminations," he explains. "The clean purified water is stored in an internal water tank which is kept continuously preserved to keep it at high quality over time." Energy efficient Capturing atmospheric humidity isn't a ground-breaking invention in itself -- other companies already sell atmospheric water generators for commercial and domestic use -- but Water-Gen says it has made its water generator more energy efficient than others by using the cooled air created by the unit to chill incoming air. "Several companies tried to extract water from the air," says Kohavi. "It looks simple, because air conditioning is extracting water from air. But the issue is to do it very efficiently, to produce as much water as you can per kilowatt of power consumed." He adds: "When you're very, very efficient, it brings us to the point that it is a real solution. Water from air became actually a solution for drinking water." The system produces 250-800 liters (65-210 gallons) of potable water a day depending on temperature and humidity conditions and Kohavi says it uses two cents' worth of electricity to produce a liter of water. Civilian uses Developed primarily for the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), Water-Gen says it has already sold units to militaries in seven countries, but Kohavi is keen to stress that the general population can also benefit from the technology. He explains: "We believe that the products can be sold to developing countries in different civilian applications. For example in India, [drinking] water for homes is not available and will also be rare in the future. The Atmospheric Water-Generation Unit can be built as a residential unit and serve as a perfect water supply solution for homes in India." Kohavi says Water-Gen's units can produce a liter of water for 1.5 Rupees, as opposed to 15 Rupees for a liter of bottled water. Read: Why Haiti's deadly cholera epidemic could strike again Dirty water Another product Water-Gen has developed is a portable water purification system. It's a battery-operated water filtration unit called Spring. Spring is able to filter 180 liters (48 gallons) of water, and fits into a backpack -- enabling water filtration on the go. "You can go to any lake, any place, any river, anything in the field, usually contaminated with industrial waste, or anything like that and actually filter it into the best drinking water that exists," says Kohavi. Major Alisa Zevin, head of the Facilities and Specialized Equipment Section for the IDF, says the unit is revolutionary for them. "This unit gives logistic independence for the forces and make us ensure that we provide the soldiers high quality water," she says. In 2013, the IDF took Spring to the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan devastated the island country and left 4.2 million people affected by water scarcity. The system filtered what was undrinkable water into potable water, and that is what Water-Gen hopes to accomplish elsewhere where the technology is needed. "It's something as a Westerner you cannot understand because you have a perfect water in the pipe, but people are dying from lack of water," says Kohavi. Although Water-Gen's developments aren't a solution for the water crisis, Kohavi believes that the technology can do for countries that lack clean water, such as Haiti, what it has done for the Philippines. It can be the technology used to not only to filter water, but to save lives. "They could actually bring solution, perfect solution, to the people over there," says Kohavi. "For the kids ... They can use the technology to filter water in the field. People are going days just to carry water. And all our solutions can be an alternative for that." Read: Man cuts off fingers, makes new ones Read: Artificial eyes and plastic skulls  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/world/europe/vampire-burial-in-poland-keeps-alive-myth/index.html	world	'Vampire' burial in Poland keeps alive the myth that will not die - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 10:28:51 EDT 2014	25 years since Poland's first partly free elections, CNN's On the Road series visits the country looking at how it has been transformed since the fall of communism while taking a deeper look at its customs and culture. Watch reports on CNN TV from June 2. (CNN) -- Popular literature would have it that the vampire's preferred habitat is Transylvania (or, if you're under 15, the slightly less glamorous Forks, Washington). But modern day vampire hunters might better focus their attention on a little-known area of northwestern Poland, where earlier this month a suspected vampire grave was exhumed. Slawomir Gorka, who led the dig at a marketplace in the small West Pomeranian town of Kamien Pomorski, told local website kamienskie.info that several unusual aspects of the burial "indicate that it is a vampire burial". Teeth had been removed, a fragment of rock was inserted in the mouth, and a leg had been staked (presumably to prevent the body rising from the grave). And this isn't the first time an interment in Poland has been deemed vampiric. Last July, archaeologists uncovered four decapitated skeletons, their heads placed between their legs, at a construction site in Gliwice, southern Poland. Both the Gliwice and Kamien Pomorski graves are estimated to date back to the 16th century. The burials may sound gruesome, but they are befitting of early medieval Polish folklore's particularly grisly interpretation of the vampire myth. "Specific to Polish vampires is that they are known for eating their own flesh and burial garments when they rise from the dead," says Titus Hjelm, who convenes a course on vampires for the School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies at University College London. He adds that this may explain the stone placed in the mouth of the skeleton. Fear of vampires was strong among Eastern Europeans in the medieval period. Professor Martyn Rady, a colleague of Hjelm's, posits the folk tales spread from Serbia to surrounding countries following a report sent by Austrian military authorities to their superiors in Vienna. It told of a mercenary soldier who had been turned into a vampire and infected his victims, who when exhumed from their own graves were found to have fresh blood in their cavities. The report was intercepted before reaching the Austrian capital and published in newspapers. The Polish had particular reason to fear vampires rising from their graves, Hjelm explains. "According to some sources, Poles thought that vampires were born, rather than 'made'," he says. "They were normal people who could live normal lives, not aristocrats living in distant castles. The problems only started when these people died. They could come back to live with their families and even impregnate their wives." This may account for the precautions taken during burial. Hjelm adds the notion of vampires being creatures of the night only appeared relatively recently in the 1922 film "Nosferatu". However, some experts warn against presuming all such unconventional burials were because of a fear of vampires. Kamil Kajkowski, an archaeologist with the West-Cassubian Museum in Bytw, northern Poland, admits a number of strange medieval mortuary practices have been discovered during digs in Poland, the most common being those where the body is in the prone position, decapitated, or covered with stones. But the idea is these burials may just as well represent punishment for criminals rather than suspected vampires. That said, Kajkowski concedes the most recent discovery "is certainly unusual". "The pierced thigh-bone and a stone inside the mouth clearly indicate that a range of atypical practices with ritual undertones were performed," he says. "(The stone) might reflect the desire to create some kind of supernatural 'barrier' between the dead and the world of the living." Such peculiar last rites are not confined to medieval Poland. Kajkowski says the last recorded instance of this kind of deviant burial was in 1913. As with the skeletons found in Gliwice last year, the head had been cut off and placed by the legs. "Perhaps such a placement of the head ensured the dead would not be able to 'reach it' and put it back on his neck," he suggests. Vampiric or not, the strange range of historical graves in Poland indicate the country held deep beliefs around the ritualistic burial of certain citizens. Leszek Gardela, from the Institute of Archaeology at the University of Rzeszw, is currently working on a research project into the phenomenon. "Unusual mortuary practices have fascinated Polish scholars since the 1950s (when the first were discovered)," she says. "But so far they remain unknown to a wider international audience. It is high time to change this." 6 destinations with a dark side Send in your best shots from Poland Read more about CNN's sponsorship policy 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/giant-squid-solar-system-sculpture/index.html	world	Giant squid? Solar system? Enter the garden of hypnotizing sculptures - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 08:17:13 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/world/africa/dakar-biennale-modern-african-art/index.html	world	Dakar Biennale brings modern African art to the world stage - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 07:41:58 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The march music stops and the camera screens come to life as 70 small black cannons fire a shower of golden confetti high above the crowds. Tumbling through the air, the shiny plume swirls in a fleeting dance, covering the ground in a sprawling blanket of gold stars. It was with this rain of 54,000 star-shaped gold confetti, part of his "Celebration" installation, that Algerian artist Slimane Rais chose to mark the opening of the 11th edition of the Dakar Biennale of Contemporary African Art (Dak'Art) on May 10. RT Merci  Mr le Ministre de la Culture &  nos centaines de visiteurs prsents  l'ouverture de l'expo. internationale!  The month-long event is Africa's major contemporary art stage. Its main exhibition, housed on an industrial wasteland on the southeastern edge of the bustling Senegalese capital, has brought together 61 well-established and emerging artists from all across the continent and the African diaspora. Across three old warehouses, a diverse array of paintings, sculptures, videos, installations and mixed-media work leads audiences into an immersive journey of forms and ideas that seeks to go beyond aesthetics. "We are in an era where art should speak for something," says Ugochukwu-Smooth Nzewi, one of the Biennale's three curators. "There's a crisis in Nigeria for example with Boko Haram -- you expect artists to respond to that because artists act as seers of society," he adds. "[To] engage with the real issues of our time, like inequality or social conditions, without the work losing the sublime quality that makes art art -- it's very important." True, shortcomings such as last-minute schedule changes and repairs, as well as missing work (the area supposed to host the etching prints of Julie Mehretu, the world-renowned Ethiopian artist and one of Dak'Art's biggest names, was left glaringly empty at the time of the opening) took some shine off this year's opening event, but also added a real sense of adventure. Yet, this is still a powerful showcase, with several highlights reaffirming the renewed energy of Africa's contemporary artists and their growing relevance in the global stage. Compelling creations One of them is "The End of Eating Everything," a captivating video installation by Wangechi Mutu. In a small darkened room, the Kenyan artist uses a Medusa-like creature that obsessively devours everything around her to paint a grim picture of today's mass consumerism. Likewise, Cameroonian Justine Gaga deploys giant anthropomorphic gas canisters in "Indignation" to denounce issues like fundamentalism, racism and corruption and to call for resistance. In "Corps en Resonance," Tunisian Naziha Mestaoui invites visitors to interact with three crystal bowls filled with water to produce hypnotizing sounds and eerie light reflections. This is a crowd-pleaser, just like the intriguing work by Kenya-based Sam Hopkins, who playfully mixes real and imaginary NGO logos to question the role and motivations of charity groups. Similarly, Angolan Kiluanji Kia Henda imagines an African NGO that gives grants to Western countries in a series of manipulated images that challenge assumptions over international aid. All the exhibited work has been brought together under the central theme of "Producing the Common," an ambitious attempt to showcase art that engages with the real issues of today. Or, as the biennial's three curators -- Nzewi, Elise Atangana and Abdelkader Damani -- put it, "to connect politics and aesthetics in a vigorous and sustained way." A more tangible link, however, is that all participating artists are exhibiting in Dakar for the first time. "The real value of Dak'Art is that it serves as a platform of visibility for African artists, so it makes no sense if you keep on repeating the same set of people over the different iterations," says Nzewi. "In a way, with this edition we are set to reposition Dak'Art going forward." New faces One of these newcomers is Milumbe Haimbe, a Zambian artist exploring the representation of cultural minorities in popular media. Here, she uses comic book illustrations to challenge the stereotypical portrayal of women in contemporary graphic novels, as well as the absence of female black superheroes in the genre. "My protagonist in this particular comic is female, black, young and gay," says Haimbe, introducing "Ananiya," an undercover agent operating in a not-too-distant future, where the whole world is controlled by a powerful corporation. "The idea is to help different people to relate to different symbolisms," says Haimbe. "A lot of the heroes in popular media, whether they are comics, movies or novels, are heterosexual white males -- nothing wrong with that but I think we need to see another alternative," she adds. "You know, the world is made out of so many people." Like other art festivals, Dak'art gives out awards to participating artists. Haimbe herself was one of the 10 winners, scooping the "Prix de la Fondation Blachere." The grand prize was shared by Algerian artist Driss Ouadahi, for his "Unter Uns" painting, and Nigerian Olu Amoda, for his "Sunflower" sculpture, a compelling creation made of repurposed nails and spoons in Lagos's junkyards. "The sunflower comprises of several small flowers and when they come together they glow under the sun," says Amoda. "So I'm trying to look at the positive signs of the interdependence of Africans ... because the interpretation of Africa is such that it's conflict and famine." Rich history Dak'Art first appeared in the calendars of art aficionados in the early 1990s, initially as an event dedicated to literature and then as a biennial of visual arts that welcomed artists from all over the world. By 1996, however, at a time when few young African artists were able to break into the international market, Dak'Art had already found a new focus as a pan-African contemporary art biennial. The transformation helped it distinguish itself from other large-scale recurring exhibitions but also connected it to a longer history of 20th century black consciousness, where Senegal played a leading role -- it's hard to start talking today about Dak'Art without the name of Leopold Sedar Senghor, Senegal's first president, popping up. A poet, writer and an avid art collector himself, Senghor famously staged the first World Festival of Black Arts in Dakar in 1966, bringing together artists, dancers, writers and musicians from all over Africa, Europe, North and South America and the Caribbean. Today, as more and more African artists are finally making a name outside the continent, Dak'Art has become the main platform for Africa and its diaspora to engage with the international market, attracting the usual crowds of artists, curators, critics and art historians. Similar to previous editions, this year's biennial doesn't start and end with its five main events. Even though the local public here seems to be largely unaware of them, there are some 200 parallel exhibitions running simultaneously across and outside Dakar, giving the opportunity to 500 artists to showcase their work in a wide array of spaces ranging from art galleries and hotel lobbies to bookstores and restaurants. Back in the main exhibition, curator Abdelkader Damani walks past the massive installations dotting the outdoor space, stopping every now and then to hug and talk to artists crossing his path. He says part of Dak'Art's goals this year were to help launch the careers of unknown artists and also help deal with the absence of an active market for contemporary art in the continent. "There's just one problem with the African art in the continent: there are no local markets for this kind of art," he says. "There are not that many institutions who help," he adds. "Artists need to go to Europe or America to find someone who can buy the work and help and do the exhibitions," continues Damani. "I know that what we are doing here is going to open this way to make all the people in Africa understand that." The Dakar Biennale runs until June 8.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/europe/wastewater-drug-tests/index.html	world	Tests on sewage water exposes cities on cocaine, cannabis, other drugs - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:19:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Imagine you could let your city urinate in a cup and submit the sample to a laboratory for drug testing. Would it pass? Researchers in Europe did something similar with 42 major cities, and many of them failed. Lab tests on sewage water to detect chemicals excreted after drug use turned up high levels of cannabis, cocaine, ecstasy, meth and other amphetamines. The scientists' results, published this week in the journal Addiction, read like a top 10 list of European party capitals. Some of them should come as no surprise to experienced travelers. Amsterdam in the Netherlands, for example, where smoking cannabis is tolerated -- though not legal -- in its trademark coffee shops, hovered near the top of the list in every category but meth. The port city, also saddled with the reputation of a red-light district hub, took second place in levels of ecstasy excretions found in wastewater, according to the study led by the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology. As for cannabis, a lesser-known town bumped Amsterdam to second place. The top spot for traces of pot in wastewater went to the Serbian city of Novi Sad, population 265,000. Paris came in third. Serious problems The study may seem like a review of dereliction hot spots, but its aim is serious: to help detect dangerous addictions and spikes in the use of certain illicit drugs. Multiple governmental authorities, drug prevention councils, universities and laboratories participated in the research. The scientists are hoping to develop a useful monitoring tool. It's hard to get solid data on drug usage, because it's traditionally gathered via questionnaires, the study said. Respondents can fudge the answers or forget details. Drug users also sometimes don't know what they are really taking or whether other drugs are mixed in. The laboratory analysis of wastewater has the potential to get more accurate results more quickly and detect new drugs spreading into a local market. London cocaine, Prague meth The study reveals apparent preferences for certain drugs in certain regions. Particularly high levels of benzoylecgonine, the main metabolite of cocaine, turned up in the wastewater of Amsterdam, the Belgian city of Antwerp, London and Zurich. Barcelona, Spain, and Basel, Switzerland, were not far behind. London sewage also turned up high levels of ecstasy, but the British capital did not stick out on the list of the other drugs tested for. There were no measurements taken there for cannabis. The Netherlands swept the top three on the list of ecstasy remnants gone down the drain, according to the analysis, but was much further down the list for meth concentration. That drug appears be prevalent in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and parts of Germany. The highest concentration of meth excretions showed up in Prague's wastewater, but in all other categories, the Czech city landed in the mid-teens. The Swiss team turned in results that indicate that ecstasy is a weekend drug in that country. Its excretion levels in wastewater crept along during the week and then rocketed on Fridays, peaked Sundays and nosedived Mondays.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/europe/ukraine-crisis/index.html	world	Team of monitors missing in eastern Ukraine - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 09:08:20 EDT 2014	Donetsk, Ukraine (CNN) -- Four members of Europe's Special Monitoring Mission who went missing in the eastern Ukraine city of Donetsk are being held by a pro-Russian group, Ukrainian Foreign Ministry spokesman Yevhen Perebynis said Wednesday. "The negotiations for their release are in process," Perebynis said during a briefing in Kiev. The team members, who are Swiss, Turkish, Estonian and Danish, were on a routine patrol Monday east of Donetsk when last heard from, according to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. The last time an OSCE team went missing in Donetsk, its members turned up in the hands of militant separatists in the town of Slovyansk. They were freed just over a week later. There were fears Wednesday that another group of 11 monitors had gone missing after being stopped at a roadblock in Marinka, west of Donetsk, but the group reestablished contact with the OSCE after returning to Donetsk, according to an OSCE statement.  Battle for Donetsk airport The deadly battle for control of an airport in the Ukrainian city of Donetsk may have ended, but fears of further violence stalked the streets Wednesday as a military jet flew low overhead. Dozens of pro-Russian separatists were killed after Ukrainian security forces launched an assault on Donetsk International Airport on Monday, following the militants' seizure of a terminal. The bullets stopped flying Tuesday, but the roar of the military jet's engines fed into a narrative being sold by the separatists' spokespeople of a possible bombing campaign against the city. There has been no indication from Ukrainian authorities of any such plan. But amid a climate of fear, distrust and misinformation, and in the aftermath of Monday's assault on the airport -- perhaps the deadliest incident in weeks of unrest -- concern in Donetsk is heightened. There were unconfirmed reports Wednesday of some shots being fired not far from a central administration building occupied by the separatists for some weeks. A representative for the separatists said they were trying to shoot down a drone. The Ukrainian military's move against the militants at Donetsk airport has been interpreted by some as an indication that newly elected President Petro Poroshenko will take a tougher stance. The presence of military aircraft may be intended as a reminder of the security forces' capacity to act. The separatists' attempt to take the airport came within hours of Poroshenko claiming victory in Sunday's vote. Donetsk has been at the heart of the separatists' bid to declare independence for the wider Donetsk region from the rest of Ukraine, which was mirrored in the neighboring Luhansk region. 'Our guys' Signs of the fierce fighting around the airport were visible in Donetsk on Tuesday. Blood and human remains could be seen near two blown-out trucks that had carried separatists. A pile of bodies lay in a city morgue, including the remains of a woman whose head had been apparently taken off by a round. One resident, who didn't want to show his face on camera, told a CNN team on the ground that many people in the region would be fighting -- and he didn't know who could stop the conflict, except perhaps Russia. Asked whether he thought the eastern region could ever be part of a united Ukraine again, he replied, "I think Ukraine will be destroyed." Other onlookers said the dead were "nashi," Russian for "our guys," in an indication of the public support the separatists command in their battle against the federal authorities. Eastern Ukraine was the support base for ousted pro-Moscow President Viktor Yanukovych, and many Russian speakers there feel closer to Moscow than to Kiev. The Donetsk mayor's office said that 40 people had died in the airport fighting, including two civilians, but did not specify how many of the dead were separatists. The separatists said that 35 of their own had been killed and about 60 more injured. The separatist movement in Donetsk believed it was offered a three-hour truce Tuesday afternoon to leave the city of Donetsk, according to a spokeswoman for the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic who asked not to be identified to avoid possible arrest. The Donetsk People's Republic learned of this truce online, the spokeswoman told CNN, adding that Ukrainian armed forces were threatening to bomb separatist strongholds in the city if they failed to leave. The Ukrainian government denied offering rebels any such truce. The government's anti-terror operation told CNN there is a longstanding offer of amnesty to separatists who turn themselves in and give up their weapons, unless they are guilty of murder. NATO: Signs of Russian troops packing up Kiev and the West have accused Russia of backing and supplying the separatists, a claim Moscow denies. They have also voiced concern over a buildup of what NATO estimated was 40,000 Russian troops near Russia's border with Ukraine. In a sign that Russia may have heeded calls for it to withdraw those forces, NATO said Wednesday that there was "ongoing evidence of equipment and supplies being packed or prepared for movement" in the area. "A small number of units have now withdrawn from the border. The activity we are observing continues to suggest a slow withdrawal of forces," a NATO military officer said. However, he said, many of the Russian troops remain in the border area and are capable of operations at short notice. "Thousands of troops have withdrawn, but tens of thousands remain," he said. The Kremlin announced about 10 days ago that Russian President Vladimir Putin had ordered tens of thousands of Russian troops to return to their bases but said the pullback could take some time. NATO is monitoring the situation and would welcome a complete, verifiable Russian withdrawal, the NATO military officer said. But, he added, "Any withdrawal does not erase or reverse what has happened in recent months. Russia has violated the trust of the international community by illegally invading Ukraine. The security dynamic in Europe has been fundamentally changed." Ukraine is not part of NATO, but other former Soviet states such as Poland do belong to the alliance. Russia is opposed to any move by Ukraine to forge closer ties with NATO. Ukraine: Fierce fighting closes Donetsk airport, claims dozens of lives Opinion: Free elections good for Ukraine, but could be bad for Putin CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reported from Donetsk and Laura Smith-Spark wrote from London. Journalist Victoria Butenko contributed from Kiev and CNN's Andrew Carey from Donetsk. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/africa/nigeria-boko-haram-attacks/index.html	world	Boko Haram kills 33 security personnel in Nigeria attacks, sources say - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 09:54:02 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Militants with Islamist terror group Boko Haram killed at least 33 security personnel in attacks this week on a military base and a police station in northeastern Nigeria's Yobe state, security sources said Wednesday. Monday night's attacks in the town of Buni Yadi killed 18 soldiers and 15 police, the sources said. "There were attacks by Boko Haram insurgents in Buni Yadi, but details are still sketchy," Yobe state police commissioner Sanusi Rufa'i said. The attacks come more than a month after the group abducted an estimated 276 girls from a boarding school in Chibok, also in northeastern Nigeria. Dozens escaped, but more than 200 girls still are missing. Boko Haram translates as "Western education is a sin" in the Hausa language. The militant group says its aim is to impose a stricter enforcement of Sharia law across Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation, which is split between a majority Muslim north and a mostly Christian south. Nigerian military official claims he knows whereabouts of kidnapped girls Devastating Nigeria attacks show twisted ambition of Boko Haram CNN exclusive: Nigerian girl who escaped Boko Haram says she still feels afraid  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/asia/vietnam-china-paracels-fishing-boat-collision/index.html	world	Vietnamese fishing boat sinks after collision with Chinese vessel - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 03:57:56 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A Vietnamese fishing boat has sunk after colliding with a Chinese vessel near an island chain in the South China Sea at the center of a territorial dispute between the two Communist neighbors. According to China's state-run Xinhua news agency, the Vietnamese vessel had been "harassing" a Chinese fishing boat at 5 p.m. local time on Monday in waters near the Paracel Islands, a largely uninhabited archipelago also known by the Chinese as the Xisha Islands. However, Luu Tien Thang, a senior officer aboard a Vietnamese coast guard boat patrolling waters nearby, told CNN Tuesday the Vietnamese vessel reported that it had actually been rammed by the Chinese ship during a distress call. While the Chinese vessel was purportedly a fishing boat, Luu said there were "usually Chinese military boats in the area with the fishing fleet." Other Vietnamese fishing boats and coast guard ships picked up the 10 crew members aboard the Vietnamese vessel, Luu added. Chinese ships reach Vietnam to extract thousands of citizens 'Forcefully intruded' Relations between China and Vietnam have soured in recent weeks after a state-owned Chinese oil company began drilling for oil some 17 nautical miles off the Paracels. Vietnamese officials say Chinese military and civilian ships have been harassing their vessels around the islands -- which are controlled by Beijing but claimed by Hanoi -- even accusing the Chinese of repeatedly ramming into them and shooting water cannon. READ: How an oil rig sparked anti-China riots in Vietnam China maintains that its current drilling activities are legitimate and blames the Vietnamese for provoking the conflict. At a daily press briefing in Beijing Tuesday, Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Qin Gang said the Vietnamese vessel had "forcefully intruded" into the area where its drilling rig was operating, then ran into the left side of a Chinese fishing boat before capsizing. "I want to stress that the direct cause for this incident is that the Vietnamese side ... insisted on disturbing the normal operation by the Chinese side and took dangerous action on the sea," said Qin. "We once again urge the Vietnamese side to stop immediately all kinds of disruptive and damaging activities." He said there is "no dispute concerning the sovereignty of the Xisha islands," and that they are Chinese territory. "We hope the Vietnamese side will stop its disruptive actions and bear in mind the overall interests of the stability of the region. Only by doing so can the Vietnamese side uphold the overall interests of bilateral relationship," Qin added. The spat recently spilled into violent anti-Chinese protests across Vietnam two weeks ago, prompting Beijing to evacuate thousands of its nationals. Recent video aired by Chinese state broadcaster CCTV showed some limping or being carried down the stairs of a medical flight arriving in the city of Chengdu, many with limbs bandaged. Two Chinese nationals were killed in earlier clashes, authorities said. Vietnam characterized the protests as "spontaneous acts" by individuals who were exploiting the situation to "cause social disorder." READ: What's behind China's territorial spats?  CNN's Euan McKirdy contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/25/world/europe/belgium-jewish-museum-shooting/index.html	world	Video shows Jewish Museum killer - CNN.com	2014/05/25	Sunday May 25 06:58:25 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Images from the Jewish Museum of Belgium show the gunman behind Saturday's deadly attack approaching the building, opening fire, and walking away. He used an AK-47 assault rifle to carry out the shooting, which killed at least three people, police said Sunday. Photographs and video released by Belgian police show the man wearing a cap and blue shirt, carrying two bags over his shoulder. The images do not show his face clearly. The shooter left on foot after the attack and headed toward a different part of downtown Brussels before he disappeared, according to police. Authorities are hunting the suspect, believed to have acted alone, deputy public prosecutor Ine Van Wymersch said. Investigators hope the public will help to identify the suspect. Two of those killed in Saturday's attack are Israeli and the third is French, Van Wymersch said. The Israelis were a couple in their 50s from Tel Aviv, Israel's Foreign Ministry said. French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said the French victim was a woman and offered his condolences Sunday to the families of all those killed, his ministry said. A fourth person, a Belgian national who works at the museum, remains in critical condition, Van Wymersch said Monday. That contradicted museum spokeswoman Chouna Lomponda, who said Sunday that the fourth person had died. Terrorism has not been ruled out, Van Wymersch said Monday. No arrests have been made, she said. A person who was detained Saturday soon after the shooting is considered a witness and not a suspect, Van Wymersch added. That witness was not seen in surveillance video recorded during the attack, she said. The circumstances of the shooting have raised suspicions that it may have been an anti-Semitic attack, but no motive has been determined. Van Wymersch said it was too early to determine whether the attack was an act of terrorism or motivated by anti-Semitism. Could the killer attack again? A senior Belgian law enforcement official told CNN that Belgian police do not yet have any leads on the killer. It's been challenging to identify the killer because he was wearing a baseball cap. The official told CNN that authorities have no information yet on the specific motivation or ideological background of the killer. They do not know whether they are dealing with Islamist terrorism, some sort of neo-Nazi type of attack or another category altogether. But there is concern that the killer could strike again, the official said, and that authorities could be dealing with a "Mohammed Merah" type of killer. Merah, a French-Algerian Islamist radical who received terror training with al Qaeda-linked militants in Pakistan, shot and killed three French paratroopers in two attacks in March 2012 before killing three schoolchildren and their teacher at a Jewish school in Toulouse, France, during a 10-day shooting rampage which he filmed with a camera attached to his torso. But the official stressed that no evidence has emerged in Saturday's attack pointing to any link to Islamist terrorism. The official told CNN that authorities cannot say with certainty whether the Brussels gunman was carrying a video camera to film the attacks. Some investigators who viewed the surveillance footage believed this was the case and some did not. The quality of the surveillance footage was not good enough to make a conclusive determination. The official said the killer shot the Israeli couple first in the museum entryway with one of his weapons. The couple had been consulting the wall display. He then pulled out a Kalashnikov assault rifle and shot the others inside the museum. Surveillance cameras picked up the killer walking on two or three streets before he disappeared. The official said the killer appeared to be skilled in using weapons and likely planned the attack meticulously. The official stressed Belgian authorities are investigating all possible angles, including Islamist terrorism, neo-Nazi attack, and other categories. With regard to the threat from Islamist terrorism, he noted there has been longstanding concern over the 100 or so Belgian Islamist extremists who received training in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region over the years, and high current concern over several hundred who have more recently traveled to fight in Syria. The concern is they might be able to use skills acquired there to launch attacks back home. Heightened security Belgium's Interior Ministry raised its terror alert level in the wake of the attack. Belgian Interior Minister Joelle Milquet told a news conference Saturday that the security threat level was at its highest at locations frequented by the Jewish community across the country. This measure is precautionary, she added. She met with the police, Belgian Jewish community leaders and the president of the European Jewish Congress, Moshe Kantor, on Sunday to discuss the security arrangements, an Interior Ministry statement said. The Jewish community is determined to continue its activities in schools, synagogues and cultural centers, but under heightened security with a permanent police presence, the statement said. Kantor is also to hold urgent talks with Belgian Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo, his group said in a statement. Kantor described the attack as "horrific but not surprising" and urged action by European governments to tackle extremism and hate speech. "Attacks on Jewish targets in Europe do not exist in a vacuum, but are part and parcel of an overall climate of hate and incitement against Jewish communities," he said, according to the statement. "Anti-Semitism begins in the public domain, it gains international legitimacy and becomes normative even in our national parliaments but it always ends in killing Jews." Pope Francis, who was in Israel on Sunday, told reporters that he had a "heavy heart" after the "atrocious" attack. "While reiterating my condemnation for this criminal act of anti-Semitic hatred, I entrust the victims of this crime to the God of mercy and invoke upon the wounded his gift of healing," the pope said in Tel Aviv before departing for Jerusalem. Jewish men targeted in France In neighboring France, two Jewish men were assaulted late Saturday as they were leaving a synagogue in Creteil, outside Paris, the French Interior Ministry said Sunday. Two men were involved in the aggression against the two Jewish men, who are bruised, Interior Ministry spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet said in an interview with CNN affiliate BFMTV. Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve instructed police and other authorities to strengthen security at Jewish sites while looking for the perpetrators of Saturday's incident, which he strongly condemned, according to the ministry. In the wake of the attack in Brussels, Cazeneuve reaffirmed his determination to fight those who commit murderous acts and spread racism as well as well as anti-Semitism, the ministry said. Anti-Semitism worldwide A global survey released in May by the Anti-Defamation League reported on the levels of anti-Semitism found in 102 nations. Belgium received a 27% index score in the survey. The index score represents the percentage of adults in a country who answered "probably true" to a majority of the anti-Semitic stereotypes tested. Belgium has an adult population of about 8.7 million. The ADL said one-fourth of adults worldwide are "deeply infected with anti-Semitic attitudes," according to a CNN.com report on the survey. France had the second highest index score in Europe, with 37%, although that was well below Greece, with 67%. Germany had a score of 27%, Spain 29%, Sweden 4% and the United Kingdom 8%. The United States was given an index score of 9%. More on rampage killings  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/world/missing-british-yacht-found/index.html	world	Coast Guard suspends search for 4 sailors on British yacht - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 05:35:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A missing British yacht was found overturned with its keel broken, causing a breech in the hull, about 1,000 miles off Massachusetts, but the four-man crew is still missing, the U.S. Coast Guard said Friday. A U.S. Navy helicopter spotted the capsized the 39-foot Cheeki Rafiki sailboat within a Coast Guard search area east of Cape Cod, officials said. A Navy boat crew and surface swimmer assessed the damaged boat, but the swimmer found no signs of the crew after knocking on the hull and reaching below the waterline, the Coast Guard said. Search crews looked Friday for a bright-colored life raft and the missing sailors, who the Royal Yachting Association identified as skipper Andrew Bridge, 21; Steve Warren, 52; Paul Goslin, 56; and James Male, 23. As expected, the Coast Guard suspended the search at 10 p.m. ET Friday -- which was midnight in the search zone -- after scouring another 21,000 square miles. No sailors had been found as of then. In a statement Friday night, the Coast Guard hinted that the prospects anyone would be found alive are slim. "Based on the extreme sea conditions at the time of distress, but assuming best-case emergency equipment, the estimated survival time past the time of distress was approximately 20 hours," the Coast Guard said. "Searches were suspended nearly 200 hours after the time of distress." The four British sailors have been missing in the Atlantic Ocean for more than a week. The 39-foot (12 meters) Cheeki Rafiki was sailing from the Caribbean to the United Kingdom on May 15 when it began taking on water, according to Doug Innes, the yacht's managing agent. Innes said contact was lost with the boat -- which he describes as "a performance racer/cruiser" that is "equipped for trans-Atlantic sailing and racing" -- early the next morning. He added that he believed the crew abandoned to the life raft. But the U.S. Coast Guard appeared to dispel that notion, saying Friday night that "the boat's life raft was secured in its storage space ... indicating the crew had not been able to use it for emergency purposes." Multinational search for missing British yacht crew resumes CNN's Greg Botelho, Steve Almasy and Kevin Conlon contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/world/europe/uk-richard-iii-reburial/index.html	world	Court rules Leicester will be final burial place of King Richard III - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 05:46:43 EDT 2014	London (CNN) -- It's been a long journey for Richard III, the 15th century king whose skeleton was found under a parking lot in the English city of Leicester. But on Friday, his final destination became clear. The medieval monarch will be reburied in Leicester Cathedral, just a stone's throw away from where his remains were uncovered. The discovery of his remains, complete with curved spine and staved-in skull, in the summer of 2012 sparked global headlines and a new battle -- over which city would host his remains in perpetuity. Archaeologists had been searching the site for Leicester's long-lost Greyfriars Friaryhad and always planned for any bodies they uncovered to be reburied at the city's cathedral. That was challenged in the courts by a group calling itself the Plantagenet Alliance, which argued it was the medieval king's wish to be buried in the historic northern city of York -- the city they claim was closest to his heart. But judges at the Royal Courts of Justice ruled Friday that his funeral should be held in Leicester as originally planned. Their ruling notes that since Richard's exhumation, "passions have been roused and much ink has been spilt" as rival camps fought to stake their claim. Now, they say, "We agree that it is time for Richard III to be given a dignified reburial, and finally laid to rest." The University of Leicester, which was behind the excavation project, celebrated the outcome on Twitter. "Richard III will be reinterred in Leicester. Great news for the University, our city and everybody involved in the discovery," it said. 'Horrific death' In bringing its case, the Alliance objected to the lack of consultation over where the newly-rediscovered monarch's bones should be laid to rest, saying more thought should have been given to the question. On its website, the Alliance -- made up of people who claim to be distantly related to Richard III, and headed by Stephen Nicolay, his 16th great nephew -- set out its argument to have him reburied in York. "We believe that the proposed location of Leicester is wholly inappropriate for the burial of King Richard III, who had no connections with the town beyond his horrific death, bodily despoliation and appalling burial in a foreshortened grave," it said. "As people who have died in a foreign place are 'brought home,' so too King Richard should be brought to a place with which he had every possible connection and affection." Richard III lost his life in the Battle of Bosworth in 1485 -- the last king of England to die on the battlefield and the last monarch from the House of York. Until his remains were found, the monarch was best known to modern Britons as the hunchbacked Shakespearean villain accused of murdering his nephews, the "Princes in the Tower," to usurp the throne. That notorious history may make the battle over his reburial site appear all the more unlikely. But both sides insisted they have a strong claim to his remains. Now Leicester could see a significant commercial benefit, if tourists flock to see his final resting place. The city already has plans for a new tomb in the cathedral, where a memorial stone has long paid tribute to the last Plantagenet king, and for a visitor center on the site of the Greyfriars car park, telling the story of Richard's life, his death, and his rediscovery. In a statement, Leicester City Mayor Peter Soulsby said: "I am delighted that Leicester Cathedral can now proceed with its plans to give King Richard lll a dignified reburial here in the city. "With the support of the city council and the University of Leicester, the cathedral is now planning for the king's reinterment to take place in the spring of next year." Read more: Richard III had worms, scientists say Read more: New coffin mystery at Richard III site CNN's Bryony Jones contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/18/world/americas/colombia-bus-fire/index.html	world	31 children killed after bus catches fire in Colombia - CNN.com	2014/05/18	Sunday May 18 04:39:18 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A bus packed with children burst into flames in Colombia on Sunday, killing at least 32 people, officials said. The bus was picking up children from an event at a church in Fundacion, Colombia, when the blaze began, Col. Adan Leon told CNN affiliate Caracol TV. "Everyone started to scream and run," a child who was on the bus told Caracol, describing how he escaped through a window. Victims of the deadly fire included 31 children and one adult, Harry Aaron, a civil defense official in Magdalena department, told CNN. Authorities are investigating what caused the fire, Leon told Caracol. One witness told Caracol that the driver went to get a drink and left children to put gasoline into the vehicle's tank. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos expressed condolences on Twitter Sunday and traveled to the northern Colombian municipality to be with victims. "The country is in mourning," he said. 48 die in bus crash No evidence of fire before FedEx truck crashes into bus  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/25/world/pope-mideast-trip/index.html	world	Pope Francis invites Israeli, Palestinian heads to Vatican peace talks - CNN.com	2014/05/25	Sunday May 25 02:51:34 EDT 2014	Bethlehem, West Bank (CNN) -- Pope Francis extended an invitation Sunday to the leaders of Israel and the Palestinian Authority to travel to the Vatican for a "peace initiative," after earlier calling for a two-state solution to the intractable conflict. The pontiff's remarks came at the end of an outdoor Mass in Bethlehem's Manger Square on the second day of his three-day trip to the Middle East. "In this, the birthplace of the Prince of Peace, I wish to invite you, President Mahmoud Abbas, together with Israeli President Shimon Peres, to join me in heartfelt prayer to God for the gift of peace," Francis said. "I offer my home in the Vatican as a place for this encounter of prayer." He added, "Building peace is difficult, but living without peace is a constant torment. The men and women of these lands, and of the entire world, all of them, ask us to bring before God their fervent hopes for peace." The Palestinian side has accepted the invitation and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas will go to the Vatican, a Palestinian Legislative Council member, Hanan Ashrawi, told CNN. The Israeli President's office said that he welcomed the invitation. "President Peres has always supported, and will continue to support, any attempts to progress the cause of peace," his office said. Pope Francis then traveled on to Tel Aviv, where in remarks on the airport tarmac to Peres and Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, he again issued an invitation to pray for peace at the Vatican. He also reiterated the Vatican's support for Israel's right to exist in peace and security. The next stop on his historic trip was Jerusalem. Two states Earlier, speaking alongside Abbas in the West Bank city of Bethlehem, Francis called for the recognition of a Palestinian state -- but he made the same demand on behalf of the state of Israel. He urged "the acknowledgment by all of the right of two states to exist and to live in peace and security within internationally recognized borders." The Pope called on all sides to pursue a path to peace together and not take unilateral actions to disrupt it. "I can only express my profound hope that all will refrain from initiatives and actions which contradict the stated desire to reach a true agreement, and that peace will be pursued with tireless determination and tenacity," he said. Middle East peace talks recently stalled despite high-profile efforts by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry to push them forward. The government of Israel has objected to unilateral initiatives by Palestinians to seek international recognition as a state, and Palestinians have objected to Israeli initiatives to expand settlements on the West Bank. Protecting Christians In his remarks in Bethlehem, Francis called on Abbas to protect the religious rights of Palestinian Catholics. The Vatican has expressed concern over the emigration of Palestinian Christians. The pontiff also took a stand for the poor, suffering under tensions between Israelis and Palestinians. "Even in the absence of violence, the climate of instability and a lack of mutual understanding have produced insecurity, the violation of rights, isolation and the flight of entire communities, conflicts, shortages and sufferings of every sort," he said. After meeting with Abbas, Francis cruised in the Popemobile through a crowd of hundreds of Catholic faithful and onlookers gathered in Manger Square as they awaited the papal Mass. Priests and the faithful swayed to religious music, while many waved red, green, black and white Palestinian flags and others yellow and white Vatican flags. The Pope hopped off the Popemobile to shake hands with people in the crowd. In a symbolically charged moment, he also stopped the vehicle to cross over to the separation barrier erected by Israel, its surface daubed with graffiti including the words "Free Palestine!" There, arm outstretched, he touched the concrete wall, his head apparently bowed in prayer. Mustafa Barghouti, general secretary of the Palestine National Initiative, told CNN, "The Pope did not only put his hand on a concrete wall. He put his hand on occupation. He put his hand on (an) apartheid system, on a system of separation, and discrimination, and oppression." Refugee children make appeal Francis also met with a group of Palestinian refugee children while in the West Bank. As they entered, the children held up signs about the occupation of Palestinian territories, typed in Arabic, Italian and English. "Muslims and Christians live under the occupation," read one. Another said, "I have never been to the sea!" in an apparent reference to the restrictions on movement under which Palestinians live. After the children sang and presented him with gifts, the Pope responded in his native tongue, Spanish, to say he had heard their message. "Never let the past determine your lives," he said. "Violence is not overcome by violence. Violence is overcome by peace." While in Jerusalem, Francis will meet with Bartholomew, the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople. His visit to the region commemorates the 50th anniversary of the landmark meeting between Pope Paul VI and the spiritual leader of the world's Orthodox Christians at the time, Patriarch Athenagoras, in Jerusalem. The pope will also meet the city's grand mufti and chief rabbis, visit the Western Wall and Yad Vashem, a memorial to the Holocaust, and lay a wreath on the grave of the founder of modern Zionism, Theodor Herzl. The Holy Land visit is the first for Francis as leader of the Roman Catholic Church, and just the fourth for any pontiff in the modern era. 'Urgent' solution needed to Syrian crisis On the first day of his trip, Francis also gave a message of unity as he celebrated Mass at a stadium in Amman, Jordan -- a majority Muslim nation with a significant Christian community. In his homily, Francis spoke of the need for tolerance and diversity and urged everyone to put aside grievances and divisions. "The mission of the Holy Spirit is to beget harmony ... and to create peace in different situations and between different people," he said. "Let us ask the Spirit to prepare our hearts to encounter our brothers and sisters so that we may overcome our differences rooted in political thinking, language, culture and religion." Christian refugees from Syria, Iraq and the Palestinian territories were among those present, and 1,400 children received their First Communion at the Mass. The Pope's trip to the Holy Land has been billed as a "pilgrimage for prayer," with its roots in faith, not politics. But in a region where religion and politics are so closely intertwined, his every remark takes on an added significance. The pontiff is traveling with two friends -- a rabbi, Abraham Skorka, and a Muslim, Sheikh Omar Abboud, who leads Argentina's Muslim community. The Vatican has said their presence is symbolic of his call for unity. The Pope's first stop was at al-Husseini Royal Palace in Amman, where he met with Jordan's King Abdullah II. In televised remarks after that meeting, Francis paid tribute to Jordan's efforts to promote interfaith tolerance and to the welcome that the small nation has given to Palestinian refugees and, more recently, those fleeing war-torn Syria. Francis said it was "necessary and urgent" that a peaceful solution is found to the crisis in Syria. While in Jordan, Francis met some of the 600,000 Syrians who have fled since the start of the civil war in 2011, as well as refugees from Iraq. He also visited the River Jordan, where many Christians believe Jesus was baptized. Everything to know about Pope Francis Pope Francis in the Holy Land: 5 things to know CNN's Ivan Watson reported from Bethlehem and Delia Gallagher from Jerusalem, while Laura Smith-Spark wrote and reported from London. CNN's Michael Schwartz and Ben Brumfield contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/world/meast/egypt-presidential-candidates-economy/index.html	world	Can Egypt's presidential candidates transform economic fortunes? - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 11:59:52 EDT 2014	Watch Marketplace Middle East every week on CNN International. Click here for the show times. For full coverage of the Egyptian election in Arabic, visit CNN Arabic. Cairo, Egypt (CNN) -- Since the 2011 revolution, Egyptians have seen near non-stop protests, the toppling of two presidents, six elections, and a seemingly endless political crisis. But what they haven't witnessed yet is what has been demanded all along -- a better economy. As the country goes to the polls next week to elect a new president, both candidates insist this is something they can be trusted to deliver. Former army chief Abdel Fattah el Sisi pledges new roads, housing, airports, jobs and an end to the energy crisis. Sisi's lone opponent, left leaning politician Hamdeen Sabahi, has vowed to dish out millions of dollars in investments to help reopen government factories, create new jobs, build new housing and improve health care. These are lofty promises. But has either candidate offered specifics on how they will get things done? "Not yet," said Cairo based economist, Angus Blair. "We've still got a few weeks before elections but the pressure is growing on both of them to come up with plans and that includes Sisi." Blair believes that in order to deliver on campaign promises, Egypt's next president must attract investors from both inside and outside Egypt through large scale economic reform. "It's not going to be easy," he added. "The problems are surmountable but I have to say the structural problems of Egypt's economy are enormous." These problems include rising food prices, unemployment at roughly 14% and a crippling budget deficit of around 12% of GDP. On top of all that, passions are still running high over the ousting and trial of former president Mohamed Morsy who was removed from his post by the army in 2013. A critical step to recovery, many business-minded economists say, is cutting costly food and fuel subsidies that eat up roughly one third of Egypt's budget. But for the country's poor, cutting subsidies will be an extremely tough pill to swallow. To ease the impact, Blair says Egypt's next leader must launch projects to help the masses -- like improving transport and affordable housing -- that can be kick-started by billions of aid received from Gulf Arab states. "If the right policies are in place, Egypt will respond quickly," Blair said. "But changing sentiment is the key by putting right policies and right people in place to show something is changing." Only then, he concludes, can Egypt's next president truly improve the economy and meet the demands of millions of Egyptians still waiting for a better life three years after revolution came to the country. See also: Cairo's nightlife comes back to life See also: The Middle East's king of hotels See also: Gas fields could unite Cyprus  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/world/africa/nigeria-kidnapped-girls/index.html	world	Nigerian military official says he knows where kidnapped girls are - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 04:22:19 EDT 2014	Badeh continued: "The good news for the parents of the girls is that we know where they are, but we cannot tell you. "We cannot come and tell you the military secret, just leave us alone, we are working to get the girls back," he reportedly said. In response to the news, Pentagon spokesman Adm. John Kirby told CNN U.S. officials were not able to confirm the report. More than 200 schoolgirls were kidnapped in northern Nigeria last month by Boko Haram, an act that drew international condemnation. The terror group abducted an estimated 276 girls on April 14 from a boarding school in Chibok. The Nigerian military suffered an embarrassing setback when it retracted a report that nearly all the kidnapped girls were released. Dozens escaped, but more than 200 girls are still missing. Nigerians and others have accused their government of not acting swiftly or efficiently enough to protect the girls seized in the dead of night. Boko Haram translates as "Western education is a sin" in the Hausa language. The militant group says its aim is to impose a stricter enforcement of Sharia law across Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation, which is split between a majority Muslim north and a mostly Christian south. Boko Haram's attacks have intensified in recent years. Kidnapped girls: How you can help Girl: 'How I escaped Boko Haram' Hagel: No 'solid evidence' on whereabouts of Nigeria schoolgirls CNN's Jim Sciutto contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/africa/egypt-presidential-election/index.html	world	Egypt presidential vote extended to third day - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 12:53:38 EDT 2014	Egyptians, do you plan to vote in the presidential election? Tell us why or why not. (CNN) -- Voting in Egypt's presidential election will be extended into a third day Wednesday to allow citizens a greater chance to vote, election officials announced Tuesday in a move criticized by both candidates' campaigns. It wasn't immediately clear whether the candidates' complaints would have any effect on the decision by the country's election commission. The election, initially scheduled only for Monday and Tuesday, pits former army chief Abdel Fattah al-Sisi against Hamdeen Sabahy. "We strongly denounce the (election commission's) decision to extend voting another day. Extending the voting period for no real plausible reason will open the door to possible vote violations and rigging," said Hussein AbdelGhany, a top adviser to Sabahy. The election commission extended the voting in part so that people living in areas away from where they are registered can return to vote, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. No numbers have been released, but the move comes amid concerns expressed in Egyptian media that the turnout has been low. TV hosts this week openly criticized voters for not participating. At the few dozen polling places that CNN visited or drove by in the Cairo area this week, there were no significant lines of people waiting to vote. The move also comes after Egyptian Prime Minister Ibrahim Mehleb, late Monday night, declared Tuesday a public holiday "in compliance to citizens' wishes," state TV reported. The decision was thought to be a move to increase turnout. Both campaigns said they filed complaints against the commission's extension. AbdelGhany said Sabahy would consider withdrawing from the race if his complaint was ignored. The election was called because then-President Mohamed Morsy was removed from power in July in a popular military coup. El-Sisi, who was army chief at the time, stepped down from his military post this year to run for president. READ: Egypt elections: 5 things to know READ: Opinion: Egypt's youth needs more than tinkering at the edges READ: Analysis: Can Egypt's presidential candidates transform economic fortunes? 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/health/weight-loss-edgar-hernandez-irpt/index.html	health	Teen drops nearly 200 pounds - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 07:42:48 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Do you have a weight-loss success story to share? Tell us how you did it and you could be featured in our weekly weight-loss story on CNN.com. (CNN) -- Edgar Hernandez didn't expect to learn that he was pre-diabetic at age 16. When his mother burst into tears at the doctor's office, it hit him hard. He was 370 pounds and couldn't stand to look at himself. It was tough being a fat kid, but things became unbearable in high school. Edgar was seeing a therapist for depression symptoms. He was frequently bullied in gym class. Kids would point at his "fat wobbling everywhere," especially as he struggled to keep up. "I tried my best to ignore it. But there were times when I just gave in and started crying," said Edgar, who lives in a suburb of St. Louis and is now 18. Everyone in his family had a weight problem; his parents developed type 2 diabetes in their forties. But Edgar was the biggest. "He would eat two really big burritos or sandwiches a day, packed with cheese, sour cream, a lot of bread, butter," his older brother Mario said. "He would be watching TV, playing video games." After receiving the sobering blood test result at the doctor's office, Edgar went home and cried. And then something new happened: He owned up to his weight problem. "It was time to stop blaming others for my choices and make a choice to take responsibility," he said. He dried his tears, threw on his jacket and began jogging. He only got about half a mile before he stopped and threw up. That was a year and a half ago. Edgar, who is 5-foot-9, went on to drop nearly 200 pounds. He now weighs 185 pounds. He has traded his double-XL shirts and size 48 pants for medium T-shirts and 33-inch pants. It happened slowly at first. After that gut-impulse jog in November 2012, Edgar started walking before or after school. As he could, he added distance until he was walking about two miles a day. He started to incorporate running intervals until, months later, he could run a full mile. The weight began to come off, but the teen wasn't seeing as much progress as he had hoped. It was his older brother, Mario, who helped him kick the weight loss into high gear. Mario, who carried 235 pounds on his 5-foot-7 frame, was inspired by Edgar's will to change. He took Edgar to the grocery store and together they overhauled the family's pantry. Chicken breasts and fresh produce replaced the processed foods and sodas that were once the staple at home, Mario said. Edgar's typical breakfast became a peanut butter sandwich with honey and banana slices. Dinners usually featured a chicken breast with two cups of broccoli. He didn't have a specific diet or calorie count; it was all about portion sizes, the teen said. The brothers became each other's support. They started running together in January 2013, buying sweatpants and thermal gear to keep them warm in the Illinois weather. Mario has lost 70 pounds and continues to run alongside his brother, Edgar said. The brothers, who live at home with their parents, have seen their weight loss inspire some changes for the whole family, Mario said. The family has cut down on eating out -- once every couple of weeks, as opposed to four to five times a week. "As a family, we go outside more, walk a little more. It shows because we have a lot more energy," Mario said. "Even though other members haven't lost as much weight, maybe five pounds, you can see it in their faces." These days, Edgar can't get enough of running. His favorite activities are heavy cardio and weightlifting. The teen even ran his first half-marathon in April, and he's planning another one soon. "Running is what made me feel happy; I had gotten what they call 'runner's high' and now running has become a lifestyle," he said. Edgar has also found his calling in his new healthy lifestyle. He will start college at Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville in the fall and plans to study exercise science. For Mario, watching his little brother shed the pounds at such a young age has been a source of pride. "If you would have told me three years ago that he'd be running a half-marathon, I wouldn't believe you," Mario said. "You see a completely different person that's a lot happier, has more energy and is more active." Edgar couldn't agree more. "I wouldn't even step out my door to get the mail before," he said. "People don't see the dark, sad side of me anymore. They see a bright, happy kid." For the people out there looking to lose weight, the teenager has the following advice: Don't put it off. If you say you're going to run, do it today, not tomorrow. "Don't wait, because it will get worse," he said. "You'll start putting it off until something serious happens and when something serious happens, it will change your life." Visit Edgar Hernandez's Facebook page or on Twitter @RunWithEdgar to follow his journey.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/16/world/americas/skeleton-mexico-americans/index.html	world	13,000-year-old teenager was early American - CNN.com	2014/05/16	Friday May 16 04:26:52 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A teenage girl may have gotten lost in a cave looking for water, nearly 13,000 years ago. Naia, as she's known today, likely fell to her death in a deep, dark pit. Now, her remains are shining a light on the genetic heritage of what we believe are the first people in the Americas. Researchers have discovered Naia's bones in a pit in an underwater cave system in Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. Her skeleton, described in the journal Science this week, is one of the oldest of any humans found in the Americas. She comes from a group of ancient people anthropologists call Paleoamericans. Genetic analysis of her remains suggests that Naia is related to modern Native Americans. It's a clue to resolving the issue of whether the group we call Native Americans are indeed related to the first settlers of this land mass. This study promotes the view that "Native Americans and Paleoamericans share a homeland," said James Chatters of Applied Paleoscience, who was the lead author of the study. That homeland is called Beringia, also called the Bering Land Bridge, that connected what is now Siberia and Alaska. The new research goes against the idea that the first Americans may have come over in separate migrations from Europe and Asia. Other genetic evidence from both modern Native Americans and ancient skeletons indicates that people of Siberia landed in eastern Beringia between 26,000 and 18,000 years ago, the study said. They seem to have moved south after 17,000 years ago. So how do we know who this girl was? Naia's genetic lineage was analyzed through mitochondrial DNA. This is genetic material that is passed from mothers to children, and is stored in the mitochondria, a part of a cell that is essential for energy production and is sometimes thought of as a "power plant." Scientists are able to characterize genetic lineages by looking at mitochondrial DNA. It's important to note, however, that this does not reveal as much information about a person's heritage as nuclear DNA, which is stored in the cell's nucleus and contains material from both parents. Researchers are planning to look at Naia's nuclear DNA also, Chatters said. Researchers found that the 12,000- to 13,000-year-old teenager's mitochondrial DNA belongs to Haplogroup D1, a category only found in the Americas these days but which originally came from an Asian lineage. Some South American populations today have this genetic signature: 29% of indigenous people of Chile and Argentina have it; so do 11% of Native Americans, said Deborah Bolnick, assistant professor of anthropology at the University of Texas at Austin. Through her maternal line, the girl in the cave seems to have been related to modern Native Americans as well as their ancestors, Bolnick said. Why doesn't she look like Native Americans? But wait -- Naia's physical features are very different from that of modern day Native Americans. Flat, broad faces with flaring cheekbones, and short, round heads are typical of Native Americans, Chatters said. By contrast, Naia had an angular head, and a small, relatively narrow face. Naia's features are more similar to other ancient populations and isolated hunter-gatherer populations in such places as the Philippines, Chatters said. "Paleoamericans -- those earliest people with the distinctive skull and facial features -- could have come from Siberia too," Bolnick said. "It therefore seems more likely that differences between Paleoamericans and Native Americans today are due to evolutionary changes that occurred in Beringia and the Americas over the last 9,000 years." Some scientists believe a population entered Beringia, became geographically isolated, and then experienced evolutionary changes in their mitochondrial DNA during several thousand years, Chatters said. From there, multiple migrations may have taken people out of Beringia and to the Americas. "What this study is presenting for the first time is the evidence that Paleoamericans with those distinctive features can also be directly tied to the same Beringian source population as contemporary Native Americans," Bolnick said. Facial features may have evolved over time in response to such factors as changing climates and diets, Chatters said. Paleoamericans also have characteristics such as facial projection -- features such as mouth and eyes protruding from the skull -- that are related to aggression, a behavior that would be favorable in a migrating population, Chatters said. As groups settle down, however, docility tends to be advantageous. Why was Naia at the bottom of a pit?  The near-complete skeleton, dated to between 12,000 and 13,000 years old, was discovered in a pit that lies in an underwater cave system in a crevice the jungle floor about five miles from the Caribbean Sea. Traversing through a flooded tunnel, divers discovered this chamber that was so dark it seemed to absorb their underwater lights, Alberto Nava of Bay Area Underwater Explorers said at a press conference. They called it Hoyo Negro, which means Black Hole in Spanish. "The floor disappeared under us, and we could not see across to the other side. We pointed our lights down and to the sides. All we could see was darkness," said Nava, who is the co-director and lead diver for the Hoyo Negro Project. Nava's team found many of Naia's bones, as well as "a small cranium laying upside down with a perfect set of teeth and dark eye sockets looking back at us." They made this discovery in 2007. Most of the bones are still underwater, Chatters said. Scientists conducted the DNA analysis and age estimate based on one of Naia's wisdom teeth. "Recently, to protect the skull and some bones damaged by unauthorized visitors, we recovered them from the cave, but studies of those pieces have not yet begun," he said. This cave site was probably dry until about 10,000 years ago, when it flooded because of glacial melting, researchers said. There is evidence from the way that the bones are distributed in the cave, and iron oxide on the walls, that it contained "an ephemeral pool of water" that may have been filled by storms, Chatters said. We may never know why Naia died, but Chatters said it looks like she took a great fall into the pit, fracturing her pelvis. She would not have entered the cave system through a crevice in the jungle, as the divers did, but rather from a ground-level entrance, as the "ground" was lower than it is today. The name Naia comes from the Greek word for "water nymph," researchers said. Even if we don't know what she called herself, further investigation may uncover more about her roots and life. Follow Elizabeth Landau on Twitter at @lizlandau CNN's Justin Lear contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/14/tech/web/apollo-space-auction/index.html	tech	For sale: Artifacts from Apollo lunar missions - CNN.com	2014/05/14	Wednesday May 14 06:09:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- If you have some disposable income and want to own a piece of aviation or space-exploration history, now's your chance. A metal fragment from the doomed Hindenburg airship, a signed photo of vanished pilot Amelia Earhart and items brought to the moon on the Apollo lunar missions are among hundreds of aviation- and space-related artifacts going on the auction block. Almost 600 items are being offered in RR Auction's Space & Aviation online sale, which begins Thursday and runs through May 22. For space enthusiasts, the highlights may be artifacts from NASA's Apollo lunar missions, including several pieces of rare equipment: -- A complete Apollo 15 Rotational Hand Controller used by Commander David Scott to fly and land his lunar module on the surface of the moon in 1971. Bidding starts at $10,000. -- A Crewman Optical Alignment Sight used by Scott for rendezvous, docking and star sightings during the lunar module phases of the mission. Bidding starts at $2,500. Both pieces came from Scott's personal collection and are likely to be prized by collectors. "These items represent the pinnacle of Apollo-era flown material," said Richard Jurek, co-author of "Marketing the Moon: The Selling of the Apollo Lunar Program." "While risking their lives during the most critical and historic phases of their mission, these are the items that the astronauts personally selected to retain as mementos from arguably the greatest technological and engineering achievement of the 20th century." Seventy items from Apollo 11 -- the first manned mission to land on the moon -- will be offered, including pieces from the personal collections of Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins. Items from other Apollo missions as well as Mercury, Gemini, and space shuttle missions also are being auctioned. Other artifacts include signed maps, patches, photos, and even a full spacesuit. RR Auction has been around for more than 30 years and specializes in rare documents, manuscripts, autographs and historical artifacts. This will be the site's seventh auction that has focused on human aviation and space exploration. Much of the equipment used on NASA missions has been left behind on the moon or sent drifting into the vastness of space. And many items that return from space missions are stored away in private collections or donated to museums, which is why rare auctions of spaceflight memorabilia draw interest from aviation enthusiasts. "Objects coming directly from moon walkers and that have been in private collections since returning to Earth are unquestionably the most sought after," said Bobby Livingston, executive vice present of RR Auction.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/14/tech/social-media/elon-musk-tesla-oatmeal/index.html	tech	Will Elon Musk fund a Nikola Tesla museum? - CNN.com	2014/05/14	Wednesday May 14 04:35:40 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Inventor Nikola Tesla may have died alone and broke, but he has powerful friends who want to preserve his legacy. Cartoonist Matthew Inman, the brain behind "The Oatmeal," is one. Using his popular web comic, Inman launched an effort to turn Tesla's former laboratory in Shoreham, New York, into a museum. Tesla, who lived from 1856 to 1943, developed the basis for AC power, among other ideas and innovations that have shaped our lives. He obtained more than 100 patents, according to the Tesla Memorial Society of New York. Inman partnered with the Tesla Science Center at Wardenclyffe, a nonprofit group, to generate widespread interest in a museum. The cartoonist sang the inventor's praises in a humorous, profane comic hailing Tesla as superior to the better-known Thomas Edison ("Basically, Tesla = Nicest. Inventor. EVER," Inman wrote). Through the crowdfunding website Indiegogo, the nonprofit and Inman stirred up more than $1.3 million in 2012, when the facility and land were put up for sale. That was enough money to save the property, but not quite what was needed to renovate it for an actual museum. From grains of 'Oatmeal,' big things for cartoonist So this week Inman turned to a man who has become a household name in his own right: Elon Musk, CEO of SpaceX and Tesla Motors, which is named for the inventor. Inman published an Oatmeal comic called "What it's like to own a Tesla Model S," bursting with enthusiasm about owning the electric car, and then appealed to Musk in a second installment. "Elon Musk, if you're reading this: You owe us nothing, and you've done nothing but good things in the name of Nikola Tesla," Inman wrote in his endearing handwriting-esque typeface. "But the fact remains: Tesla Motors, a company now worth billions, is using Nikola Tesla's name and they're using his technology, and all we want in return is a little bit of help." Inman wrote that automobiles have AC induction motors and bear the Tesla name, despite the fact that no one from Nikola Tesla's family was involved in founding the car company. According to the Tesla Memorial Society of New York, Nikola Tesla invented the AC induction motor, which he sold to Westinghouse in 1888. "But the idea of a car company using someone else's family name without any formal connection to them is a slightly arresting notion," Inman wrote. "It would be like naming a company 'Steve Jobs Hoverbikes' 50 years from now, regardless of any ties to Apple or Jobs himself." During the initial fundraiser for the museum, Musk donated $2,500, Inman wrote. But what the Tesla Museum would need to open, he said, is another jolt of $8 million. Inman tweeted Tuesday "@elonmusk I wrote a review of my Model S, and then asked you for a little favor here [link]."  To the delight of many Twitter users, Musk tweeted back: "@Oatmeal I would be happy to help." Of course, we don't know if "help" means the full $8 million or much less. Musk's Tesla Motors declined to say how much Musk would donate. But for fans of Tesla's work and legacy, the possibility is electrifying. Elizabeth Landau is on Twitter at @lizlandau CNNMoney's Katherine Lobosco contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/opinion/nicholson-va-money/index.html	opinion	Opinion: The VA has plenty of money, just bad leadership - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 01:26:04 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Alex Nicholson is legislative director at Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- As politicians, pundits and the American people are focused on the escalating national crisis at the Department of Veterans Affairs, one excuse for the VA's woes keeps surfacing. Money. The VA, some say, needs more money to do its job and care for veterans properly. But looking at the facts, that math just does not add up. Since 2009, Congress has given Secretary Eric Shinseki every penny he has said he needed to fund the VA fully, resulting in an astonishing 50% increase in the agency's overall budget at a time when budgets everywhere else across the federal government have been squeezed, strained and slashed. Congress even exempted the VA from sequestration, a win that not even the Pentagon managed to score while still engaged in a war overseas. Congress also agreed to take the extraordinary step of giving the VA the annual funding it needs to cover veterans' health care a year in advance so that the agency's hospitals and clinics never run out of money. It is the reason the VA's health care system continued to operate without interruption during last fall's government shutdown, even as parks, federal buildings and congressional offices were forced to close or curtail operations for weeks. A bipartisan coalition of lawmakers in both the House and the Senate, with the strong support of virtually all veteran and military service organizations, has pushed for years to give the VA the rest of its budget a year in advance, too, but the secretary and the Obama administration thus far have refused to endorse publicly the wisdom of protecting the entire VA budget with an advance appropriation. Our gut reaction to contemporary social and bureaucratic challenges may be to throw more money at the problem or to blame Congress, but this is one situation in which such simple excuses fall far short. A lack of resources within the VA is not to blame for the failures of that department, and even if it were, the responsibility for that underfunding would lay solely at the feet of the secretary due to his inadequate budget requests, not with Congress. Far from being underfunded, the VA is facing woes that are clearly due to a failure of planning and leadership. The VA knew or should have known that demand for its services would swell as more troops survived the wars with more severe and chronic injuries, especially mental injuries. And with troop surges and drawdowns debated and planned well in advance, corresponding future demands on the VA system could -- and should -- have been anticipated. Since reports first emerged of veteran deaths during long waits and alleged mismanagement in Phoenix, there continues to be a profound and worrisome lack of thoughtful and proactive leadership coming out of the VA. Instead, the VA has been addressing problems in a predictable manner, first denying their existence, then downplaying the scale, then hunkering down in crisis mode and finally -- and belatedly -- coming forward with a tepid and weak public response. The passive, insular and arms-length management style has proven ill-suited for staying ahead of the pervasive problems of the nation's second-largest bureaucracy. But more importantly, the fear is that such detached leadership from the top may have caused the VA's bureaucratic and administrative pathologies to metastasize. Our nation made a promise to the men and women who served this nation. Tragically, the VA is falling short of this fulfilling this promise. This time, however, we cannot simply spend our way out of accountability and responsibility. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/opinion/davis-cuban-sterling/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Bias vs Bigot: Cuban is no Sterling - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 01:16:38 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Michaela Angela Davis, a writer and activist, was the executive fashion, beauty and culture editor at Essence, editor-in-chief of Honey magazine and fashion director for Vibe magazine. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- I am encouraged by Mark Cuban's clunky remarks. Granted, when Dallas Mavericks owner made statements about prejudice and Donald Sterling, they were insensitive and ironic. "If I see a black kid in a hoodie and it's late at night, I'm walking to the other side of the street," he said in an interview on inc.com, triggering fresh painful images of Trayvon Martin. He went on to say if he saw "a white guy with a shaved head and tattoos" he'd do the same thing. The irony is many members of the NBA are black, several white players have tattoos and many of them likely have a hoodie hanging in their lockers. However, Cuban was willing to be self-reflective in his attempt to voice his bias and made mistakes in that effort -- that is critically important to advancing our public discourse on the complexities of race in America. I don't think anyone can disagree at Cuban's basic premise that we all have some level of prejudice or bias. Yet what rouses emotions to a call for action is the most destructive and violent strains of prejudice, bigotry and racism. What we witnessed in the Donald Sterling interview with Anderson Cooper was not him trying to have an honest conversation about bias like Cuban; what we saw was a bigot in denial arguing his case to keep his property. That property otherwise known as the LA Clippers is slipping from him. Commissioner Adam Silver said Donald Sterling violated the NBA constitution and is confident the league will be able to force Sterling and his wife to sell the franchise. Sterling has lost his legacy and will be forever known as a disgrace to the NBA and an icon of ignorance. At this point, the best way Sterling could change the way he'll be remembered in history is to come clean. "Hi. My name is Donald Sterling. I am a racist. I need help." It's been said the worst thing to be labeled in America is racist. But why the worst? It certainly is not the most unnatural thing to be, especially if you're from a certain era or region. American history is steeped in racist institutions, ideology and imagery. Being a racist in America isn't the lowest, actually it's highly probable. Donald Sterling has proven to be an all-star racist and he is part of an American legacy. All men are created equal: An enlightened philosophy, yet a near impossible practice. Our revolutionary road towards equality is long, bloody, littered with hypocrisy and utterly beautiful. What makes this country great is not its perfect walk to freedom for all, but its commitment to paving the way mile by painful imperfect mile. Racists are not always hateful or uneducated -- they are complicated, resistant, underdeveloped people, often the product of complex, cruel, greedy times and institutions. The brutal business of slavery in the U.S. is older than its Constitution. The Declaration of Independence was drafted during the height of the transatlantic slave trade while also slaughtering millions of indigenous Americans. It's complicated. How can America expect its citizens not to be conflicted? The foundation of our mighty agricultural economy was built on the international institution of slavery. Strong black bodies were bought and sold to perform specific work, which they were able to do with superior efficacy. The extraordinary physical capabilities and the impressive capacity to adapt and innovate of black men (and women) made many white men very rich for many years. Donald Sterling is not so singular, not some ancient artifact -- he has built his wealth on an old successful American business model. He is not alone or fully to blame for his racist mentality. The belief that the best use of black and brown people is to serve, labor, produce and entertain is part of America's long history and continues to this day. There are obvious metaphors connecting antebellum plantation operations to Sterling's comments about his ownership of the LA Clippers. However, we don't have to look as far back as slavery for support for why his being a racist isn't shocking. Donald Sterling (born Donald Totowitz) was born in 1934. Brown v the Board of Education was in 1954. Rosa Parks was arrested in 1955 and the landmark civil rights decision in Loving v the State of Virginia happened in 1967. Sterling was an adult with a character and morals already formed before the arrival of the civil rights movement. The movement happened but it's naive to believe the whole country would move with it. Sterling lived and flourished during legal, government sanctioned discriminatory and racists policies. Wealth for the privileged white male can create a power buffer against the messy work of civil rights. Clearly Sterling is a shrewd businessman. So if there were no obvious or immediate benefit for him to have an awakening of equality, why would he? It pays for Sterling, and has for many others, to be racist. To declare, "I am not a racist" while clearly communicating racist beliefs is actually the worst. Adding insult to ignorance, Sterling said "I am not a racist" countless times during his interview with Anderson Cooper, alternating it with some of the most racists statements heard in mainstream media this century. Proclaiming, "I am not a racist " while proving your racist ideology is more insulting and more dangerous than actually being racist. Denial is more diabolical than ignorance. It prevents the possibility of education and evolution. It would be far more encouraging if the next Sterling would just come out say. "Yes, I am a racist". Or during the inevitable awkward public apology, instead of the expected and lame, "If I offended anybody I'm sorry," be courageous, admit it: "What I said was racist and I am sorry." Now that would be progress. It's also time for America to be really brave and take full responsibility for its racist past and current racist practices. To stop clutching its proverbial pearls every time one of our neighbors or leaders or landlords exposes their racist education. Our collective denial is stalling our advancement to a more perfect union. Donald Sterling is accomplished and educated, so one can only imagine the beliefs of the scores of less fortunate and underexposed. Numerous white supremacist groups are thriving right in our back yards. They too are citizens stuck in time, pathetically clinging to a bitter romanticized past where America was ruled solely by white males. Racists or people holding racist beliefs have to stop being cowards, face their racism and be willing to recover so we can all can get down to the better business of creating a land of the free home of the brave. Being a racist is not the worst. Lying about it, denying it and refusing recovery is. Admitting racism may very well be the first and critical step to actually ending it. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/us/california-kidnap-victim-found-knight/index.html	us	Michelle Knight: Stop doubting California woman on kidnapping - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 08:36:58 EDT 2014	"She had plenty of time to actually escape so it's hard to believe this is really going on because she had a lot of free time." Authorities have acknowledged that the woman said she reached out to her family before she went to police. A photo posted on Facebook purports to show her with her mother and sister on on Mother's Day -- one week before she went to authorities. A post in Spanish that accompanies the photo on Facebook reads: "After almost 10 years after not seeing my mom and little sister." CNN cannot confirm the date of the photo, and police and the prosecutor's office declined Friday to comment further on the details of the case. Garcia's attorney, Charles Frisco, said Friday he hasn't had much time to talk to his client but said stories such as the neighbor's make him doubt the state's case. "If you listen to what they have to say, it sounds like he's not guilty and it's all fabricated," Frisco told CNN. Knight has just one answer to those doubting the woman's story: You couldn't possibly understand. "Just because you're not chained up and you're not locked in the basement doesn't mean you ain't trapped," she told CNN's Kate Bolduan. "I know exactly what it feels like to be trapped in your own mind, your emotional mind, and told you can't do anything about it, nobody will care about what you say." Knight was held in Ariel Castro's Cleveland home from August 2002 until May 2013, when her fellow captive Amanda Berry summoned help from a neighbor to break out of the locked house. Sometimes chained, frequently brutalized, Knight said the worst part of her decade of captivity was the isolation and the psychological manipulation her captor held over her. "I was threatened to be killed. I was threatened that nobody cared about me," she said. "For a girl like her, the emotional torture is so painful that she chose not to hurt other people," Knight said. "Because he may have threatened to hurt her, he may have threatened to hurt the people that she was talking to." Elizabeth Smart, who also was abducted, had a similar message in an interview Thursday with Chris Cuomo on "New Day." "Well, as a survivor who has been chained up in physical chains and also had the chains of threats held over me, I can tell you firsthand that threat is so much stronger than physical chains," said Smart, who was abducted from her Salt Lake City home in 2002. "Now, I don't have intimate details on what threats he was holding over her head, but I understand that he was holding her family, that he was threatening her family and, for me, that was the strongest threat anyone could have ever made to me," she said. Knight said she worries that questions such as those raised about the California woman's case will keep other people suffering from abuse from coming forward and seeking help. "You're making people not want to come out, not want to say anything," she said, her voice breaking. "You're making people want to sit there and keep it to themselves and go through the abuse when you say stupid crap like that." The California woman's alleged captor, Garcia, 42, was arrested during a traffic stop Wednesday. He is charged with a felony count of forcible rape, three felony counts of lewd acts on a minor and a felony count of kidnapping to commit a sexual offense. If convicted of all three crimes, he could face life in prison. CNN's Kyung Lah and Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/opinion/sutter-same-sex-marriage-pennsylvania-oregon/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Yay for same-sex marriage, but ... - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 07:48:50 EDT 2014	Editor's note: John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion and creator of CNN's Change the List project. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook or Google+. E-mail him at ctl@cnn.com. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- There's plenty of gay-rights news to celebrate this week: -- On Monday, a federal judge threw out Oregon's ban on same-sex marriages, writing that his decision was one in support of "families committed to the common purpose of love, devotion and service to the greater community." -- On Tuesday, the same thing, more or less, happened in Pennsylvania, with a judge in that case writing that "we are a better people than what these laws represent, and it is time to discard them into the ash heap of history." (I mean, wow, right?) -- And, for those would might say "activist judges" are behind all of this progress, please note that Gallup on Wednesday released data showing 55% of Americans -- a greater percentage than ever shown in that group's polling -- support same-sex marriage rights. So, in summary: The era of same-sex marriage is upon us; even those who grimaced at NFL player Michael Sam's boyfriend kiss probably can see that; and, therefore, all's well that ends well. Well, not so much. In the march toward marriage equality, the United States skipped over other rights that are more fundamental and perhaps more essential for LGBT people. Consider three facts: 1. It's legal for employers to fire gay and lesbian people because of their sexual orientation in not one or two fringe states but in 29 of them, according to the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights advocacy group that tracks these things. That's a majority of states where it's legal to fire someone simply for being gay. "It's important to note that, while same-sex couples can legally marry today in Pennsylvania, they can actually be fired from their jobs for talking about their new spouses at work," Charlie Joughin, spokesman for HRC, wrote in an e-mail to me. Related: No one should be fired for being gay 2. Related to that, there also are 29 states where it's legal for landlords to evict gay and lesbian residents simply because of their sexual orientation. That's true not just of places such as Mississippi but also states with more progressive reputations, such as Pennsylvania and Michigan. 3. Some states make it onerously difficult, if not impossible, for transgender people to legally change their names and update the gender that's listed on their state ID or driver's license. Maybe that sounds inconsequential, but consider going to the airport with an ID that doesn't match who you are and having to explain your gender identity to a TSA agent. "There are 15 (states) that we would give an F" on these issues, said Harper Jean Tobin, director of policy at the National Center for Transgender Equality. Progress is coming but much too slowly in some cases. The first employment nondiscrimination laws were passed in East Lansing and Ann Arbor, Michigan, according to Michael Bronski's "A Queer History of the United States." The year was 1972. A range of cities and corporations have come up with their own nondiscrimination policies and rules in the decades since, but state and federal movement has been sluggish. The Employment Nondiscrimination Act passed the U.S. Senate last year but has been a nonstarter in House, thanks to Speaker John Boehner. To be fair, there are campaigns from LGBT rights groups to put in place these basic protections. The Human Rights Campaign, for instance, started Project One America to "dramatically expand LGBT equality in the South," including freedom from discrimination, which is rampant in that region. But it's clear marriage equality has been the primary focus, for the public, activists and for the news media. There are some reasonable explanations for that. Some would argue, for instance, that campaigns for marriage equality have helped people realize gay and lesbian people are loving and family-oriented -- and that greater protections will follow that awakening. I hope that's right, but it's no sure thing. We're starting to see ourselves in America as a beacon of progressiveness and opportunity for LGBT people. But we also need to acknowledge the reality -- which is that this also is a country where basic protections remain worryingly absent.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/opinion/wright-obama-va/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Two tragedies, two reactions: So what took Obama so long? - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 07:57:29 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Crystal Wright is a conservative writer who runs the blog ConservativeBlackChick.com. She also is a principal at the Baker Wright Group, a communications and public relations firm. You can follow her on Twitter @GOPBlackChick. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Not even a week after the ruling in the Trayvon Martin trial, President Barack Obama couldn't wait to stand before the White House press corps and "speak to an issue that obviously has gotten a lot of attention," as he said last July. Yet it took Obama more than a month to address the crisis where 40 veterans allegedly died while waiting months for treatment at a Phoenix Veterans Administration hospital. Congress has held hearings on the grave matter since April and called Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki among other witnesses to testify. But Obama just got around to holding a press conference Wednesday on the topic. "So when I heard allegations of misconduct -- any misconduct, whether it's allegations of VA staff covering up long wait times or cooking the books -- I will not stand for it, not as commander in chief, but also not as an American," Obama declared. If Obama is as outraged and "mad as hell" as he professes, why did it take him over a month to say anything substantive about vets dying because of months waiting for care? Prior to his long overdue press conference about the VA controversy, Obama only mentioned what has now become another White House scandal in a response to a question from a reporter on April 28 during his Asia trip. During his press conference, Obama said he wasn't going to jump to any conclusions or call for any resignations until "the investigators do their job and get to the bottom of what happened" at the VA. He added, "we have to find out, first of all, what exactly happened." In contrast, Obama couldn't wait to jump to conclusions and comment on the shooting of the black teen Martin by George Zimmerman before any investigation or trial happened. Obama made extensive comments on the shooting in March 2012 in the Rose Garden. "You know, if I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon. All of us as Americans are going to take this with the seriousness it deserves," he said. Well we certainly didn't hear the president say, if he had served in the military, "I could have been one of those veterans who died." Apparently, veterans, who put their lives at risk defending our country then died at the hands of incompetent VA employees aren't worthy of the same attention and "seriousness" as Trayvon Martin? Even more indicative of the Obama White House's misplaced priorities is the White House issued a statement from the president on the day of the Tryavon Martin trial verdict last July. No White House statement was issued about the VA allegations. But clearly a statement on the Martin trial wasn't enough. A few days later, Obama held a press conference about the verdict. "I thought it might be useful for me to expand on my thoughts a little bit," Obama noted. Martin's death, though tragic, had nothing to do with national security or government malfeasance and didn't warrant attention from the president of the United States. But Obama felt it was very important to comment on the death of a young black man shot by a "white Hispanic" to appease race hucksters like Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson who helped elect him. Stammering throughout his VA press conference Wednesday, Obama told reporters "responsibility for things always rests ultimately with me, as the President and commander in chief." At the same time Obama claims he didn't know how big the problems were with the VA. How can a president be responsible for problems occurring at agencies if he's not aware of the problems? This sounds like the all-too-familiar refrain the White House uses. It didn't know about the IRS scandal or the Department of Health and Human Services' disastrous rollout of Obamacare. Again, Obama promised, "there is going to be accountability." "Listen, if somebody has mismanaged or engaged in misconduct, not only do I not want them getting bonuses, I want them punished," he said from the White House briefing room. Hopefully this time, the President means what he says because in past scandals he has held no one accountable. IRS division director Lois Lerner and HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius both were allowed to resign without accountability. Shinseki eventually will do the same. Regardless of the outcome of the investigation, at minimum our veterans deserve the same attention to their deaths as Obama gave Trayvon. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/living/bad-mother-judge-women-parents/index.html	living	De Blasio bad mother fall-out: Why are we so quick to condemn? - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 08:24:51 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- If I were to admit what went on in my house this morning -- how I raised my voice more than once and slammed the kitchen cabinets after my 8-year-old daughter kept talking back to me -- how many people would think I'm a "bad mother"? Probably more than a few. I bring up the issue after something that took place very publicly involving the new first lady of New York City, Chirlane McCray, wife of Mayor Bill de Blasio. In an in-depth profile in New York magazine on her upbringing, professional experience and relationship with her husband, McCray talks oh-so-briefly (one paragraph in a six-page piece) about how she struggled with the weight of the responsibilities and the loss of some of her independence when her first child, Chiara, was born in 1994. READ: Longing for the carefree parenting style of yesterday? "I was 40 years old. I had a life. Especially with Chiara -- will we feel guilty forever more? Of course, yes. But the truth is, I could not spend every day with her. I didn't want to do that. I looked for all kinds of reasons not to do it," said McCray. "I love her. I have thousands of photos of her -- every 1-month birthday, 2-month birthday. But I've been working since I was 14, and that part of me is me. It took a long time for me to get into 'I'm taking care of kids,' and what that means." She never said she was a bad mother, mind you, but that didn't stop one New York City tabloid from using the label. On the front page of the New York Post, along with a picture of McCray, was this nearly full-page headline: "I Was a Bad Mom!" The New York Daily News had a slightly more restrained take with a smaller photograph on its front page, along with the headline, "Didn't want to be a mom." READ: Memo to imperfect moms The coverage prompted an unusual move by the mayor, calling a press conference just to denounce the tabloids and demand an apology to his wife. A features editor at the Daily News, who is a new mom herself and just back from maternity leave, defended the coverage in a post, saying the papers didn't make the story up. It is what McCray said. "Chirlane, you're probably a good mother. Maybe even a great one. But that doesn't mean you get to fret about your performance  then complain at how people discuss it," said Raakhee Mirchandani, the Daily News features editor. But is that what happened? Here was a woman speaking candidly and expressing something that a lot of women can probably relate to and then the media jumped in, using the words "bad mom" and suggesting she didn't want to be a mom, when that's not the case. Would the media or anyone else, for that matter, do the same if a man admitted he struggled with balancing parenthood and his professional life, or if he realized he didn't want to spend every waking moment with his kids? You know the answer. READ: Are millennial moms more traditional? "Society has this just general obsession with the dichotomy of motherhood, good versus bad, and we have this failure to see women as whole beings with motherhood only making up one aspect," said Avital Norman Nathman, editor of "The Good Mother Myth: Redefining Motherhood to Fit Reality." "Instead, motherhood always gets pushed front and center and then it becomes judged, whether you are excelling or not." Rebecca Levey, a mom of twins and co-founder of a video sharing site for tweens called KidzVuz, said the whole brouhaha reminds her way too much of a former first lady. "This sounds so much like when Hillary Clinton said I'm sorry I didn't stay home and make chocolate chip cookies ... and then she had to go freakin' make chocolate chip cookies and put out chocolate chip cookie recipes," said Levey, who hosted a parent blogger roundtable earlier this year at City Hall with the mayor and his wife. READ: Are money-making moms less happy? What these stories do, women say, is make other moms feel less confident to speak out about how motherhood, for them, might not be "this cookie cutter, sugar coated version," said Norman Nathman, who also hosts a blog called The Mamafesto. "How many people complain about their jobs and nobody questions their ability to do X, Y and Z?" she said. "But yet when it comes to motherhood, where we've placed all this pressure on parents and specifically, obviously women to turn out amazing kids, any kind of negative comment and we're blasted." There has been a trend, Levey said, of female bloggers and authors writing sarcastically about what a bad mother they are, almost making it "cool" to be the "griping mom." But get serious and the response is not quite the same, she said. "If you actually admit that maybe on a real level, you think, 'Oh my God, maybe I really messed up (as a mom),' that's not OK," said Levey. "So you can be snarky and sarcastic but you can't be honest." Katharine Zaleski, mom to a 5-month-old, said as a new mom she totally gets what McCray was saying. "You work like crazy to get to where you are and then the most wonderful event in your life, the birth of your child, completely rips you from the world you strived to rise in." READ: OMG! Your teen actually talks to you? "Frankly, I feel sorry for women who can't express what McCray did," said Zaleski, who is co-founder and president of Power to Fly, a new company connecting women and moms with job opportunities. "To me, that says they don't feel comfortable talking about the lives they built before motherhood and their goals post-baby. Furthermore, when has it been good for children to have mothers who pretend they don't have a life beyond them?" Jennifer Bosse, a mom of two, ages 1 and 3, went back to work when her firstborn was 7 weeks old. She questioned her desire to work, and her desire to be home, and ultimately decided to stay home full-time and become a freelance writer, creating a blog called Defining My Happy. "Motherhood is not all sunshine and rainbows," said Bosse on Facebook. "It's tough. It's heartbreaking. Sometimes I need time away to re-group. Does that make me a bad mother, too? Absolutely not. We're human." What do you think it will take to stop labeling women as "bad mothers"? Chime in in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/violin-plane-viral-video/index.html	us	$250,000 violin gets musical virtuosos bumped off flight - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 04:11:28 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's a good thing Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart doesn't have an Internet connection. If he could see what happened to Zachary De Pue this week, he might turn over in his grave.   A video is going viral of violin virtuoso De Pue stranded on the tarmac of Charlotte, North Carolina's airport Monday, playing his heart out in indignation -- on a priceless violin. His fiddle is worth more than $250,000. It's the reason De Pue, the Concertmaster of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, didn't make the plane. A flight attendant on the US Airways flight to Fayetteville, Arkansas, wouldn't let De Pue take the precious violin on board with him. He insisted he turn the sensitive instrument in as checked baggage. For De Pue, it was out of the question that the violin be tossed into the cargo bay. He did not mention which violin he was carrying. But according to the orchestra's website and that of the band he was traveling with Monday, De Pue plays a violin made by master luthier Ferdinand Gagliano in 1757, the year after Mozart was born. Time for Three De Pue and fellow violinist Nick Kendall are part of a string trio called Time for Three, along with bassist Ranaan Meyer, whom they were on their way to meet. Kendall was also carrying a valuable violin on board, but neither could convince the crew that their precious cargo would fit in the overhead bins. The pilot apologized, Kendall said, and told them the FAA mandates that musical instruments cannot be carried on the plane. If federal agents discovered a violation, a fine of $10,000 would follow. The two got off the plane. Cap, T-shirt, jogging pants The youthful looking De Pue told HLN's Right this Minute that he didn't feel they were being taken seriously. Standing on the tarmac in his Ninja Turtles T-shirt and jogging pants, with a baseball cap on backward, his appearance was a far cry from the clich of an elegantly dressed Concertmaster. But De Pue is used to breaking the mold with his trio, especially musically. On their historic string instruments, they love to stroke out country music, bluegrass and jazz, or improvise their own hybrids in jam sessions. De Pue decided to appeal to the pilot's ears, and whipped out the invaluable violin. "Film this man," he told Kendall, who pulled out a cell phone. "I'm going to play for them, and maybe that will get their attention." The intention was clear -- online retribution. "We're gonna post this. This is gonna be something that everybody talks about," Kendall said. De Pue's agile bow and nimble fingers toned out a classical aria over the blunting roar of the jet engines, as the last of the crew boarded. Rectifying rules The music touched the right ears. US Airways put the two on a later flight with their precious instruments as carry-ons and issued a mea culpa. "We sincerely apologize for not only their delay, but what occurred at the airport," said Bill McGlashen, a spokesman for US Airways. He cited varying regulations as the reason the two could not carry the instruments aboard the first flight, but were allowed to take them on the second. It wasn't the last run-in De Pue and Kendall would have over the priceless violins. On the next flight they took, the same thing nearly happened again, De Pue and Kendall said,when a ticket agent asked them to turn in their instruments as checked baggage. But this time, they were prepared. They had studied FAA regulations and found a 2012 adjustment in the rules, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act. It allowed them to carry their instruments on board, they said. They showed the regulations to the agent, they said. It did the trick. The customer service blues: Going viral with complaints Bob Dylan's long-lost guitar, left on plane in 1965, found Violin played as Titanic sank sells for $1.7 million  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/living/teen-builds-tiny-house-schools/index.html	living	Teen builds tiny house: School project becomes memorial to dad - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 08:29:38 EDT 2014	Marietta, Georgia (CNN) -- As the school year came to a close, 12-year-old Sicily Kolbeck found herself still without a project. It was a key requirement at the small, independent school she attended just outside Atlanta. If she found the right one -- something big and passion-driven -- it could set the course for her entire next academic year. She thought maybe she could start a natural makeup line or dive into some type of research. Or she could just keep wasting time online. As she clicked around, she stumbled into the idea of tiny houses -- dwellings that pack the conveniences of modern homes into a couple hundred square feet. She found a rabid community around them, blogs and documentaries filled with DIY builders and eco-lovers and folks who lived happily with less. This could be it, Sicily thought. She'd hardly swung a hammer before, but maybe she could build a tiny house. She remembered "renovating" the loft in their old barn to make it homier, and how she once turned a massive TV box into a personal playhouse, complete with a doorbell and place settings at the table. Tiny houses became a bit of an obsession, and just in time for school. "This was the only idea I had," confessed Sicily, who recently turned 14. READ: Do students need to sit still in class? Her parents didn't blink. It was perfect. It didn't matter that Sicily was a child. She craved independence and a space of her own, she said -- something that would be all hers. Sicily would be the architect, builder, fund-raiser and client. Her mother and teacher who had founded her school, Suzannah Kolbeck, would serve as the project manager, the guide to making plans and reaching milestones. She would help create a budget and manage the science and art that goes into constructing a home. Dane Kolbeck, Sicily's dad, would help with the hands-on. He was a sailor and woodworker with a great collection of tools, but he'd never built a house, and certainly not with a middle-schooler in charge. He would provide the guidance needed to get the project off the ground, and although they didn't know it at the time, the spark to finish it, even after unimaginable tragedy. She launched a blog, La Petite Maison, a nod to the French classes her mother insisted she take, and an Indiegogo fund-raising campaign that quickly exceeded its $1,500 goal. She drew clumsy blueprints -- piles and piles of possibilities -- then built scale models and a birdhouse that introduced her to power tools. The first few weeks of construction in January 2013 were rocky. Dane was impatient, and it was hard for him not to snatch the buzzing tools away from his daughter. Meanwhile, Sicily was exasperated when his well-trained hands homed in on her house. It took a little while, but they were starting to understand how to work together. "He kind of taught me a lot of the lingo -- flush, plumb, even, straight, square," Sicily said. "If somebody needs something jigsawed, I got that on lock now. I can figure it out, whatever it is. There was a lot of figuring things out." Then everything came to a halt when Suzannah's phone rang around 4 a.m. February 16. She was out of town, caring for a relative. An unfamiliar voice told her Sicily was safe in bed at home, but Dane had been in a car accident. The whole idea of home, tiny or otherwise, shook: Suzannah's husband and Sicily's father was gone. 'It's all about the try' In the first blank hours, the mother and daughter just sat on the couch at home. There was bawling, and sometimes silence. Text messages and phone calls came, then trickles of friends and family, then streams. They ate whatever food people brought and drank whatever coffee was made, and talked about Dane, or avoided talk about him. They played, by Sicily's estimate, 20 million games of gin rummy. After a few days, Luke Bair, like everyone else, was desperate for another distraction. He's an old friend of the Kolbecks, a homebuilder by trade who encouraged the family to take on the tiny house project, and tweaked some of the early blueprints and plans. He'd seen Dane and Sicily just a few weeks earlier, when they picked up a trailer that would bear the load of the tiny house. When he looked out the window, he saw the unfinished work of his best friend and the dashed childhood of a young girl. "We can sit around here and whine and cry and sob and tell stories and drink beer and do whatever we have to do," he remembers saying. "We can also just start working on the project." They trudged to Home Depot, bought materials and began construction once again. Sicily embraced the distraction and direction -- and the help. It seemed everyone who stopped by drove in a nail or raised a board. Within a few days, there was a shell of a small home in the backyard. Inside the pine and plywood, Sicily could see her home in three dimensions. READ: What kids can learn from failure But as mourners dispersed, there was no life as usual at home. School didn't resonate like before for teacher or student. Suzannah calculated that she couldn't possibly be a single parent and a school principal. She placed her small school on hiatus, uncertain it would ever come back. For Sicily, the academic year faded to an end. They tiny house sat outside, untouched. That spring and summer, Sicily's competitive softball team, the Georgia Titans, helped ground her in the moment. She's a catcher, a team leader -- but she wasn't really herself. Her dad had been a coach, and she still listened for his booming voice and sailor's mouth from the dugout. She turned up at tournaments without her cleats, socks or sunscreen. Eating on the road, she wouldn't order her own meals. She stopped making decisions, small or large. She cried more. "She started saying, 'I can't' a lot," said Suzannah, 43. "And I started saying, 'I can't,' too, 'but it's all about the try.' We have to make decisions about what we we're going to do." On a break between sports and school, mother and daughter decided they needed to leave. They took a trip, just the two of them on the road for five weeks, crashing at friends' homes from North Carolina to Philadelphia. Suzannah drove, Sicily directed. To navigate every traffic jam or country road, they needed each other. "He used to drive, and she would be the navigator," Sicily said of her parents. "Now I was the navigator. I could no longer live with indecision." The trip pulled them away from home -- the "big" house where they'd lived with Dane and the tiny house they'd all planned to build together. But when the road led them back to Georgia, they looked back at the plywood husk in the yard and made a decision. It was time to rebuild. 'The act is more powerful than the product' Once again, construction began, and this time, it wasn't just Sicily, or just her family. Sicily and Suzannah became regular posters to tiny house Facebook groups; a simple question could draw dozens of creative answers. Friends and a few experts pitched in; a retiree with building skills showed Sicily how to wire the house; the workers at the local Home Depot taught them how to plumb the kitchen and bathroom. A roofer donated time and materials to top the house (the only part Suzannah refused to let her teen handle on her own.) "People just showed up, resources just showed up," said Andrew Odom, creator of the blog Tiny r(E)volution, who met the Kolbecks when Sicily first planned her tiny house. "They thought they were going to go at it just as a family. They didn't know how much they needed a community. "The project could have easily been scrapped. Whether she ever lives in it or not, it bears the touch of everyone special in her life time, including her dad." Education experiment: Cutting out the classroom There was still a lot for Sicily to learn, but the project was no longer about school. Finishing meant hours and days of focus, frustration and sometimes weeping and screaming. It meant working around her tiny house's crooked corners, rebuilding a rickety staircase and painting about a dozen coats of white on the yellow pine paneling inside. Sicily labored over how to fit an oddly shaped window into the loft. She was a pro at fitting squares and rectangles, but this one was special; it came from her dad's boat. "It wasn't until later ... probably these past couple months that I realized why I'm doing this," Sicily said. "I'm doing it to show him that I can do stuff, to show him that I am capable and he doesn't need to yell at me when I can't use the drill." Others touched Sicily's house through dollars donated, advice offered and help volunteered. That, as much as the construction, was where the learning came in, said family friend Luke Bair. That's where the healing happened, too. It came when a girl and her mom shimmed the windows or tacked on the siding, and when friends old and new rallied to help them along. The house isn't a memorial to Dane, Bair said. Building it was. "It's not dreams anymore. It's skill. The act is more powerful than the product," Bair said. "Regardless of what it looks like and who appreciates it, the process had to be done." 'Who would have thought I would finish?' In April, after the final coats were painted, fresh gray curtains were hung and a few throw pillows fluffed, it was official. "My house is DONE," Sicily wrote on her blog. "Yes, yes, yes. I know. Who would have thought I would finish? Not me. Just kidding. (Kind of.)" She's 14 now, and the owner of a 128-square foot tiny home with a fully functional kitchen and bathroom, a queen-sized bed for sleeping and closets and cubbies for storage. It took a year and a half and nearly $10,000 to pull it off. READ: Kids show they're never too young to be CEO For now, it lives in the Kolbeck's backyard in Georgia. They don't live in it full time, but it's a cozy escape when the world feels too big and the ground too shaky. This summer, it will move with the Kolbecks when they return to Suzannah's hometown of Baltimore. There, Sicily will attend a public high school, play softball and consider her next project; she'd like to rebuild an old Volkswagen Beetle. "We're able to leave because it's done," Suzannah said. "To have given up would've felt wrong, just a reminder that we didn't do something, that we'd been beaten by this awful event, that we didn't care. We're able to leave because it's done." Home, Sicily knows now, can go anywhere with her. "I don't think I'm ever going to be 100% great, or 100% OK," Sicily said. "It's not like learning how to forget him, but learning how to go through life remembering him -- and still kind of living and being happy." What was the most memorable project of your school years? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNschools or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/justice/california-elliot-rodger-wealth/index.html	crime	Elliot Rodger's family struggled with money, court documents show - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 09:38:12 EDT 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- Despite his designer clothes and BMW, Isla Vista shooting suspect Elliot Rodger was not from a wealthy family. Rodger's father, a photographer and film director, was deeply in debt, and his mother made just $40,000 a year as a research assistant for a film company, according to documents from his parents' divorce. Santa Barbara County, California, investigators say Rodger, 22, stabbed to death three people in his apartment, shot two women to death outside a sorority house and killed another man inside a deli with gunfire before apparently killing himself near the campus of the University of California at Santa Barbara on Friday. Timeline to 'Retribution': Isla Vista attacks planned over years The 107,000-word "story" that Rodger sent to his parents, therapists and several others just before the killings suggested that he was angry that his parents were not wealthy. "Where's the justice? I thought. Why couldn't I have been born into that life?" Rodger wrote. His father's family in Britain "was once part of the wealthy upper classes before they lost all of their fortune during the Great Depression," he wrote. Rodger's mother and father had rich friends in Los Angeles, which allowed him to sometimes enjoy the benefits of money, such as tickets to a private Katy Perry concert in 2012. "I tried to pretend as if I was part of a wealthy family," he wrote about that night. "I should be. That was the life I was meant to live. I WOULD BE!" He blamed his parents for his lack of wealth. "If only my damnable mother had married into wealth instead of being selfish," he wrote. She dated wealthy men after her divorce, giving her son hope and prompting him to "pester" her to marry one, he said. "I will always resent my mother for refusing to do this. If not for her sake, she should have done it for mine. Joining a family of great wealth would have truly saved my life. I would have a high enough status to attract beautiful girlfriends and live above all of my enemies." His father also failed him, he wrote. "If only my failure of a father had made better decisions with his directing career instead wasting his money on that stupid documentary." The documentary -- a film about celebrities' view of God titled "Oh My God" -- plunged his father into debt when Rodger was a teenager and caused him to stop paying child support, according to court papers. "My business has not generated any income in over a year," Peter Rodger said in a 2009 filing asking the judge to modify his $2,000 a month child support payments for his two children. "As a result, I currently receive no income from any source. I am searching for employment, but have been unable to find a job." His mother noted that her former husband used the equity in his home to finance the documentary, but she agreed to a one-year suspension of child support. With her monthly income just $3,200 a month, she said had to "depend in the generosity of family and friends to make ends meet." It was his working mother's generosity to her adult son, including paying his rent and the gift of a used BMW 328i, that allowed Rodger to live in the college community of Isla Vista. He bought his three handguns with money saved from gifts from grandparents and the $500 a month his father sent him, according to Rodger's writing. Five revelations from the 'twisted world' of a 'kissless virgin' He became obsessed with gaining wealth as the "only way I could lose my virginity, the only way I could have the beautiful girlfriend I know I deserve." "I had no talents, so it was impossible for me to become a professional actor, musician, or athlete; and those were usually the ways that young people acquired such money," he wrote. "I could invent something, or start a business just like Mark Zuckerberg did with Facebook, but the chances of me achieving such a thing were the same chances I had of winning the lottery anyway." He played California's Mega Millions lottery whenever the jackpot rose above $100 million. He drove to Arizona four times to buy Powerball lottery chances. He went into a rage each time he did not win. "Without the prospect of becoming wealthy at a young age, I had nothing to live for now," Rodger wrote. "I was going to be a virgin outcast forever. I realized that I had to start planning and preparing for the Day of Retribution, even though I hadn't yet had any idea of what day that would be." The divorce documents also confirmed that Elliot Rodger was diagnosed with Asperger syndrome, a form of autism, when he was 7. "Elliot has special needs," his mother said in a sworn statement. "He is a high functioning autistic child." That he was autistic should not lead to a conclusion that autism had any connection to the attacks, according to Scott Badesch, the president of the Autism Society of America. "Reputable study after study has concluded there is no such link." 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/us/new-york-police-heroin-antidote/index.html	us	NYPD receives funding to equip officers with heroin antidote naloxone - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 03:55:28 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The New York Police Department, the largest police force in the United States, announced Tuesday that it has received funding to equip close to 20,000 officers with naloxone, a heroin antidote that can instantly reverse the effects of an overdose. State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman declared that his office would provide the funding of more than $1.1 million to equip and train the NYPD officers as part of the Community Overdose Prevention Program. "By providing NYPD police officers with naloxone, we are making this stunningly effective overdose antidote available in every corner of the five boroughs. This program will literally save lives," Schneiderman said at a press conference. Each naloxone kit consists of a zip bag or pouch containing two pre-filled syringes of naloxone, two atomizers for nasal administration, sterile gloves and a booklet on the use of the drug, according to a statement from Schneiderman's office. The emergency treatment works like the well-known EpiPen -- an epinephrine auto-injector for serious allergic reactions -- as it is injected into the muscle and does not require training, making it more user-friendly. Once injected, the naloxone stops heroin and other opioids from slowing a person's breathing down to the point that it stops. The FDA approved the prescription treatment after just 15 weeks under priority status. Currently, most law enforcement agencies are using the nasal spray version of the antidote, which is slightly different than the auto-injector. How heroin kills you "A recent pilot project in Staten Island has already proven effective with several overdose victims," said NYPD Commissioner William Bratton, who did not have an exact time frame of when the officers would officially be equipped. The training for each officer takes roughly 45 minutes, Bratton said. Joining Schneiderman and Bratton at the announcement was Carol Christiansen, co-founder of Drug Crisis in Our Backyard. Christiansen's son, a former NYPD detective, died of a heroin overdose in 2012. Erik, 28, injured his back at the gym and became addicted to oxycodone for the pain, which led to an eventual addiction to heroin. "It's an epidemic I think everybody should be aware of," Christiansen said, who believes the real problem is the poor monitoring of prescription medication. Schneiderman also led the effort to pass legislation to create I-STOP, a monitoring program that prevents individuals from going from doctor to doctor to accumulate multiple prescriptions. "If the I-STOP law was in effect over two years ago possibly my son, Erik, would be alive today," Christiansen said. The police department of Quincy, Massachusetts, was the first in the nation to require its officers to carry naloxone and has successfully reversed 211 overdoses with a success rate of over 95%. In New York's Suffolk County, 563 lives were saved last year alone, the statement said. "Equipping the NYPD with naloxone is a tremendously important step in the fight against New York's growing opioid addiction epidemic," said Dr. Andrew Kolodny, chief medical officer of Phoenix House in Manhattan. Attorney General Eric Holder vows to fight rising heroin deaths The heroin epidemic, and the antidote for overdose Long Island sees exploding heroin use  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/us/travis-mills-rowe/index.html	us	Quadruple amputee Travis Mills stuns Mike Rowe: 'I'm not a victim' - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 10:37:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Travis Mills has no arms or legs. He is an American hero who served three tours in Afghanistan and lost all his limbs when a bomb exploded under him. "How I survived, I have no idea," he said. "I was yelling at the medic, 'Get away from me,' because I thought I was done." The retired United States Army staff sergeant spent months recuperating at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, but don't dare call him a wounded warrior. "I'm not wounded any more," he said. "I'm just a guy living life." Recalling comrades killed in combat, he asks: "How selfish would it be if I gave up?" He snowboards, bikes and recently jumped out of an airplane with the U.S. Army Golden Knights parachute team. And now, he has a new admirer in Mike Rowe, the star of "Dirty Jobs" and the upcoming CNN series "Somebody's Gotta Do It." He met Mills a few weeks ago at a conference in Washington and wrote a Facebook post about their exchange to honor him this Memorial Day. As of Monday night, the post had more than 90,000 shares on Facebook. "He has a motto: Never give up - never quit. He has a Foundation. He's featured in a new documentary. He also has a wife and a kid, and a deeply personal commitment to help other wounded vets cope with their injuries." Rowe wrote. "But when I asked why I hadn't seen him in any of the typical commercials and PSA's for wounded veterans, his answer was stunning. He said he didn't consider himself to be wounded. 'I'm not a victim, Mike. And I refuse to be portrayed that way. Case closed.'" Rowe ended his candid post by reflecting on the holiday meant to honor America's military fallen. "That's called a gut-check, and I could use one from time to time. Especially on Memorial Day, when the biggest decisions I face are what to grill and which type of frosty beverage to enjoy. This year, as I resolve these and other important issues, I'll think of Travis Mills." The toll of war now includes more amputees CNN's Barbara Starr contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/business/google-driverless-cars/index.html	iBUSINESS	Google's new car: No driver, and no steering wheel - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:24:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Google has revealed a prototype of its latest driverless car -- and this one doesn't even have a steering wheel. The car will only have a stop and go button. No steering wheel. No pedals. Unlike Google's previous self-driving vehicles, which have been based on conventional cars adapted to navigate around without a driver, this model has been designed from scratch. "They won't have a steering wheel, accelerator pedal, or brake pedal... because they don't need them," Google said in a statement. The car can carry two passengers and has a maximum speed of 25 miles per hour. Google says the car's most important feature is its safety. "They have sensors that remove blind spots, and they can detect objects out to a distance of more than two football fields in all directions, which is especially helpful on busy streets with lots of intersections," the company said. With its front designed to look like a friendly smiley face, the Google autonomous car is not just efficient and futuristic, but also cute to look at. Google said it planned to build around 100 prototypes, which it will start testing in a few months. The company started developing its self-driving cars in 2005, and is testing previous models across the U.S. They are expected to be available to buy by 2020. Read more: Driverless car tech gets serious at CES  Google: Self-driving cars are mastering city streets  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/us/snowy-owls-released-massachusetts/index.html	us	Snowy owls injured by jet downdrafts are back in the wild - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 05:14:42 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Two snowy owls injured by the downdraft of jets taking off in Boston have been released in a safer place where the likes of saltmarsh sparrows and piping plovers flutter amid marshes, bogs and beach dunes. The pair were released Monday morning at Parker River National Wildlife Refuge on Plum Island in northeastern Massachusetts, after nearly eight weeks of treatment and rehabilitation, said Dr. Flo Tseng, director of the wildlife clinic where the birds were treated. The yellow-eyed, white birds were taken in March to the Tufts Wildlife Clinic in North Grafton, where one was treated for soft-tissue wounds and the other had lifesaving surgery for a broken wing, said Tseng. The owls were rescued by Norman Smith, director of the Massachusetts Audubon Society's Blue Hills Trailside Museum, after they were injured at Boston Logan International Airport. The owls have been a concern for decades at the airport, where authorities use nets to catch the birds before relocating them, Smith told CNN in December. A greater number of owls have been reported at the airport this year, Tseng said. Logan officials have captured and released more than 100 snowy owls this winter, as opposed to just 10 owls last year, she said. The influx is possibly due to an abundance of prey. Logan Airport's likeness to the tundra makes it a favorable place for the birds to land, but a dangerous place to fly, Tseng said. Tufts Wildlife Clinic, part of the Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine at Tufts University, has treated six snowy owls this year. The clinic has a 100-foot flight pen that's used for conditioning, a key part in the owl's recovery, she said. "We go in there and we bug them. We walk down to the end where they're perched and they'll fly down to the other end. So we end up exercising them," Tseng said. Although snowy owls are not an endangered species, their numbers are declining and nobody knows the actual population of these birds, said Smith. Tseng said the rise and fall in the number of owls they treat each year varies. "We try not to get attached because they're wild animals and many wild animals don't make it. It's really hard for them in captivity," she said. Tseng said she believes these two owls are the last the clinic will see this season, because most have already migrated back toward the Canadian Arctic. "They'll probably spend a little bit more time hanging around Plum Island, building up strength before going up north." CNN's Allie Malloy contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/25/us/myrtle-beach-shootings/index.html	us	Three killed, five wounded in Myrtle Beach shootings - CNN.com	2014/05/25	Sunday May 25 01:46:53 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Myrtle Beach authorities responded to six separate shootings Saturday that left three people dead and five people wounded in the popular South Carolina resort city, police Capt. David Knipes said Sunday. The deadly incident occurred at the beachfront Bermuda Sands motel, where three men were killed and one person was wounded. Knipes said no one has been arrested. A witness told CNN affiliate WPDE that one of the victims ran after the shooting but eventually collapsed. "It was like to the point where he had a lot of blood everywhere and he was just trying to breathe" and he died, Jamont Samuel told the station. At the time of the shooting, people lined the sidewalks of Ocean Boulevard, which was jammed with Memorial Day vacationers and people who came to the area for Atlantic Beach BikeFest. "I was scared to death. I just took off and started running. I was scared," Debra Lovack told WPDE. In one of the other nearby incidents, a woman was shot in the chin and a man in the shoulder. There were four other shootings where two people were wounded, police said. Knipes said police don't believe the shootings are connected. Shooting rampage in California kills 6  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/justice/connecticut-religious-cult-lawsuit/index.html	crime	Connecticut lawsuit claims teachers indoctrinated teens into cult - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 05:10:08 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A Connecticut family has filed a lawsuit claiming a public school district, a trio of high school teachers and others engaged in a "predatory religious indoctrination" that left their daughters speaking a "bizarre new language." The 64-page federal lawsuit, which does not name the young women or their parents, claims three sisters attending Avon High School were targeted and indoctrinated without the knowledge or consent of their parents. Two of the girls, now 22 and 19 years old, experienced sudden and severe personality changes, according to a lawsuit filed Tuesday. "They lost their humor and their empathy," the family claims in court documents. "They began speaking in a bizarre new language." The alleged religious cult promoted martyrdom and celebrated death, causing the eldest sisters to "experience fantasies of suicidal ideation and martyrdom," according to the lawsuit. The youngest daughter, who is 16, also was allegedly targeted by the cult but "eventually broke free." The documents name three teachers and a guidance counselor as "predators" acting on behalf of the cult but also seeks to hold Avon Public Schools accountable for allegedly failing to properly supervise and control its employees. One defendant declined comment while another did not return calls. Two others could not be reached. Avon Public Schools said: "The district administration is in receipt of the complaint filed recently in federal court and is reviewing it at this time. No communications regarding that which is alleged in the complaint have been received in the past. We will continue to review the content of the complaint and have turned the matter over to our school district legal counsel." Wellesley College is also named as a defendant for its alleged role in allowing the teachers and guidance counselor to maintain contact with the girls after high school. The college said it was preparing a statement. The lawsuit claims the girls "would frequently go to Alumni Hall, where it was desolate and they would dance, sing and perform 'whirling dervishes' -- religious dances -- until the wee hours of the morning." The eldest daughters have cut off communication with the rest of their family as well as their friends, according to the lawsuit. The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages and changes in school policy.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/studentnews/sn-curriculum-wed/index.html	us	CNN Student News - May 28, 2014 - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 05:48:28 EDT 2014	(CNN Student News) -- May 28, 2014 Think fast: Who made the first solo flight around the world? In today's show, you'll hear the answer, and you'll also hear about who's vying for the record of youngest pilot in the category! We also cover news concerning U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan, a debate surrounding school lunches, and the use of airplanes in tracking crime suspects. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day:  What points do you think should be addressed when producing a story about a debate over a controversial law? Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show: 1. combat mission 2. surveillance 3. visually impaired Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program? 1. About how many U.S. troops are currently deployed in Afghanistan? About how many did President Obama say will be there next year? How will the role of the remaining troops change? What condition has to be met in order for some U.S. troops to stay in the country? How did some Republicans respond regarding the president's announcement about U.S. troops in Afghanistan? 2. What was the goal of the child nutrition law that was passed in 2010? What did the law require schools and students to do? According to the video: Who is a major supporter of this law? Why do some people want the law changed? 3. According to the video: How does the company in the video use planes to help law enforcement? What does the Dayton, Ohio police chief say about this technology? Why are some critical of it? How does the company respond? 4. Who is Matt Guthmiller? If he meets his goal, what distinction will he add to this accomplishment? How long does he think this flight will take? How does he plan to keep in touch with people along the way? What does he hope his trip will do for other young people? 5. What is beep kickball? For whom was the game created? What equipment is part of this game? Why do its players wear blindfolds? What do students, parents and teachers in the video have to say about the game? Discussion Questions: 1. What is your opinion of President Obama's military strategy in Afghanistan? Do you agree or disagree with the decision to keep about 10,000 U.S. troops there to help train the country's security forces? State your rationale. 2. Do you think that federal laws are effective in encouraging students to eat healthier meals? Why or why not? Who do you think is ultimately responsible for the food choices that students should make: the government, the school, parents or the students themselves? 3. Do you think that what Matt Guthmiller is attempting to do is inspirational? Why or why not? Have you ever been inspired by the achievement of another young person? Explain. How did that achievement impact what you thought about your own potential? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/studentnews/sn-curriculum-tue/index.html	us	CNN Student News - May 27, 2014 - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 07:07:12 EDT 2014	(CNN Student News) -- May 27, 2014 We're doing some serious globetrotting this Tuesday, covering events taking place in Afghanistan, the Middle East, Europe, and India. We'll take you aboard a ship that carries poignant reminders of the sacrifices of U.S. troops, and we'll show you how some young people set a record by sticking together. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day:  If you were a journalist traveling with a world leader, what skills might you have to draw upon if there were a sudden change in plans? Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show: 1. Tomb of the Unknown Soldier 2. USS Cole 3. European Union Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program? 1. What surprise trip did President Obama make this weekend? What did he say to U.S. troops there? Why are presidential trips like this often kept secret? What scandal involving the Department of Veterans Affairs is happening in the U.S.? Why are some criticizing the president regarding this scandal? 2. What kind of vessel is the USS Cole? What happened to the USS Cole on October 12, 2000? What reminders of that day does the ship carry? When was the ship last in New York? What is significant about a shipboard photo that was taken at that time? 3. Where did Pope Francis start the second day of his visit to the Holy Land? According to the report: What spontaneous stop did he make? What was symbolic about his prayer there? What surprise invitation did he make, and to whom did he make it? What surprise did Palestinian children have for the pope? How did he respond? According to the video, what solution to the Middle East crisis does the Vatican support? How did the pope finish his day? 4. What is the European Union, and when was it established? What are the goals of this group of nations? Why did one official call Sunday's EU elections a political "earthquake"? 5. According to the video, who is likely to be the next president of Ukraine? What do we know about him? What issue has been at the center of unrest in Ukraine in recent months? 6. What country is often referred to as the world's largest democracy? What political event are some people in this country celebrating? What challenges await Narendra Modi as he takes office? What decisions might he make that could be unpopular with some of India's citizens? Discussion Questions: 1. What might be some reasons why a commander-in-chief would make a surprise visit to U.S. troops in another country? Do you think it affects the morale of servicemen and women in that place? Explain. 2. What is significant about a public meeting between leaders of different religions? What message do you think this kind of meeting sends to the religions' followers and to others? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/studentnews/sn-curriculum-fri/index.html	us	CNN Student News - May 23, 2014 - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 06:51:48 EDT 2014	(CNN Student News) -- May 23, 2014 China vows to severely punish those responsible for an apparent terrorist attack. This Friday, we report on what happened, and we examine NOAA's forecast for the upcoming Atlantic hurricane season. We also look into the history of Memorial Day, and we report on what Americans should look out for concerning a nationwide recall of ground beef.  Please note: CNN Student News will return on Tuesday, May 27 after the Memorial Day holiday. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day:  What audio and video elements would you include in a local news story about Memorial Day? Weekly Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided. 1. What European nation located east of the Adriatic Sea experienced its worst flooding since records have been kept? 2. After English and Spanish, what is the most widely spoken language in homes across the U.S.? 3. What iconic toy, also the single best-selling toy of all time, celebrated its 40th birthday this week? 4. What U.S. government agency is charged with regulating communications including satellite, cable and TV? 5. What form of law is imposed when the military takes over a country, usually in times of emergency? 6. In what U.S. state did residents in the town of Moore remember those who lost their lives in an EF5 tornado one year ago? 7. What was the occupation of the person who designed the current U.S. flag? 8. To what central African nation has the U.S. sent 80 troops to assist in the search for kidnapped Nigerian girls? 9. By what name was Memorial Day originally known? 10. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has recalled 1.8 million pounds of what food due to possible E. coli contamination? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/politics/white-house-cia-outing/index.html	politics	Accidental outing of CIA official could end a covert career - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 12:38:39 EDT 2014	Given the potentially dangerous nature of the situation, CNN has not broadcast or published online the name of the official. Administration officials expressed alarm over the mistake. Deputy National Security Adviser Antony Blinken told CNN's Wolf Blitzer that steps are being taken. "It shouldn't have happened. We're trying to figure out why it happened. In fact, chief of staff Denis McDonough asked the White House counsel to look into it, to figure out what happened and to make sure it won't happen again," Blinken said. Asked whether the official will have to leave Afghanistan, Blinken added, "You'll understand that I can't comment on the details, but you can rest assured that the security of this person is foremost in our minds and will be taken care of." The official's name was included on a list of people attending a military briefing for President Barack Obama during his surprise visit to Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan on Sunday. It's common for such lists to be given to the media, but names of intelligence officials are rarely provided. In this case, the individual's name was listed next to the title, "Chief of Station." The common practice is for the print pool reporter -- a journalist representing the wider media contingent who relays information about an event to other reporters -- to copy and paste the list provided by the White House into what is called a media pool report. It then gets distributed to a large list of media outlets by the White House, which does not edit the list. In this case, the print pool reporter that day -- Scott Wilson, the White House bureau chief for the Washington Post -- noticed the unusual entry after the White House distributed the list. Wilson checked it out with officials, and the White House later distributed a shorter list from a different reporter that did not include the station chief's name. In his account to CNN, Wilson said that when the media pool accompanying Obama arrived in Afghanistan, he asked White House officials for a list of who would be briefing the President. A White House official then asked the military for a list to provide to the pool of journalists. The official got an e-mail back from the military with a subject line, "manifest for briefing for pool," Wilson told CNN. That e-mail was forwarded to Wilson, and he proceeded to copy and paste it for the pool report. Wilson then sent it to the White House official, who sent the report to the distribution list that reaches some 6,000 journalists. After the initial report was issued, Wilson noticed that the chief of station had been identified in the list. He flagged the White House official, who checked with the military and then said: "This is a problem." The White House official asked if Wilson would write another pool report that would advise journalists to disregard the previous report, which contained the chief of station's name. Wilson said he was open to the request and sent the White House a new report, but he was unsure if it got distributed. According to Wilson, another pool report from a different reporter that was distributed later included details from Obama's speech to the troops, as well as the shorter list of names that excluded the CIA official and a note saying, "This is the correct list of participants." Rep. Peter King, R-New York, called the accidental outing "unpardonable." "This is something that they had a chance to look at and look at again, and they still allowed it to be out," he told CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront" Tuesday night. "To me, it's unforgivable and the message has to be sent that this type of incompetence -- six years into an administration -- is just inexcusable." A station chief heads the CIA's office in a foreign country, establishing a relationship with its host intelligence service and overseeing agency activities. The identity of station chiefs, like most CIA officers, are rarely disclosed to protect them and their ability to operate secretly. In the most recent case of a spy being outed, the Bush administration infamously leaked the name of former CIA officer Valerie Plame to a journalist in 2003. Plame, who resigned from the CIA after the incident, tweeted on Monday that the White House's mistake this past weekend was "astonishing." No one was punished for leaking Plame's CIA role to the media. Scooter Libby, the chief of staff to then-Vice President Dick Cheney, was convicted of perjury, obstruction and lying to the FBI about the Plame leak. President George W. Bush later commuted Libby's 30-month prison sentence. Top U.S. spy pulled from Pakistan after terror threats CNN's Jim Acosta, Ashley Killough and Matt Hoye contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/politics/julian-castro-profile/index.html	politics	Julian Castro's rapid rise no surprise to Texas pals - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 03:55:07 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Julian Castro, the mayor of San Antonio, and Mike Villarreal, the city's representative in the state legislature, saw potential in an historic, amoeba-shaped park parcel near the city's convention center. So, the two set to work. They secured the civic support, government approval and funding needed to turn HemisFair Park into a place where playgrounds and mixed income housing will one day overlook a grassy span and the Tower of the Americas  an observation tower marking the park's location as the site of the 1968 World's Fair. As President Barack Obama's choice to become the next housing secretary, a focus on helping revitalize inner-city areas, colleagues in Texas say, will stand the 39-year-old mayor in good stead. "Based on his focus here in San Antonio on working to improve housing in the city's core and inner city, I suspect he would advance an agenda that has in mind family and children," said Villarreal, who is vying to replace Castro as mayor. "I think you're going to be seeing a secretary of housing who understands housing on a human level." Obama 's new pick for HUD secretary If confirmed, Castro would head an agency that is still reeling from fallout from the housing crisis  including meeting mushrooming demands for affordable rental housing. He will also be tasked with helping the financially beleaguered Federal Housing Administration, which has been struggling to cope with a record number of home mortgage defaults. Obama noted during the nomination ceremony that Castro "never forgets where he comes from." He also highlighted Castro's mention of his Mexican-born grandmother in his keynote address to the Democratic convention in 2012 as an immigrant who worked hard to provide a home for her family. "For her and generations like her a home is more than just a house," Obama said. Castro will likely face questions in his confirmation hearings why San Antonio did not follow federal guidelines when it spent millions in HUD funds aimed at helping address the housing crisis during his tenure as mayor, according to a 2012 report by the agency's inspector general. The report found the city did not use a competitive bid process when it awarded $2.5 million for renovation contracts and that it did not follow federal affordability guidelines designed to target lower income residents when it spent just over $1 million to buy and fix up homes. A call to Castro's San Antonio office seeking comment about his HUD nomination was not immediately returned. Still, supporters feel Castro has the right mix of experience to lead the agency. "This economy has not been as robust as we would have hoped," Henry Cisneros, a former HUD secretary and former San Antonio mayor told CNN on Friday. "Part of the reason for that has been because the housing sector has been on the sidelines. But now housing can get into the fray and, as HUD secretary, Castro is well-poised to do that." Cisneros, who says he has discussed housing-related issues with Castro in the past and plans on having additional conversations with him, said that as mayor of San Antonio, the younger man dealt with issues of poverty, homelessness and home affordability and is well suited to the task. Opinion: Why Julian Castro said yes to Obama Texas political consultant Bill Miller also feels Castro is up to the challenge. "He'll be a cool customer. He's not going to get supercharged or over wrought over anything," said Miller who is a founding partner at HillCo Partners in Austin, a state political consulting group. "If there have been problems and challenges at the agency he's not going to be let's throw the baby out with the bathwater." Castro's appointment also would be a win for Democrats looking to add diversity to its national roster of potential candidates and put Texas in play in 2016 as well as help smooth over tensions with Latinos who are frustrated over a lack of an immigration reform overhaul, said Julian Zelizer, a Princeton University historian and CNN contributor. "In terms of the Democrats and Obama, it is at least symbolic of the party's commitment to immigration and immigration reform," Zelizer said. "It does elevate his status. It makes him a national figure rather than a local figure." Castro, the son of political activists, is the youngest mayor of a major American city. His meteoric rise from local government to being called upon to take on a Cabinet-level position is a political narrative tailor-made for primetime. He and his twin brother, Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-Texas, were picked to take the stage at the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte. The congressman introduced his brother who in turn gave a keynote address that was memorable for both his young daughter's charming hair flip and his tale of a second-generation, Mexican-American immigrant's successful rise. "My grandmother never owned a house. She cleaned other people's houses so she could afford to rent her own. But she saw her daughter become the first in her family to graduate from college," he said during the 2012 address. "And my mother fought hard for civil rights so that instead of a mop, I could hold this microphone." Mayors' stories out of school Beyond the immigrant son-made-good narrative, Castro brings a "new energy" to the President's second term, said Trey Martinez Fischer, a Democratic Texas state representative who heads that body's Mexican American Legislative Caucus. "It's very important to note is that he brings a fresh perspective and new energy to this President's second term, Fischer said. "He could serve as a pick me up for an administration that's been in place for some time."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/politics/hensarling-boehner-conservatives-alternative/index.html	politics	Conservatives float alternative to Boehner - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 10:32:02 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Some conservatives unhappy with House Speaker John Boehner's leadership are looking for a replacement, and recent moves by Texas Republican Jeb Hensarling are fueling speculation he wants Boehner's job in the next Congress. Hensarling, who was part of Boehner's leadership team two years ago but left to chair the House Financial Services Committee, gave an expansive speech last week hosted by Heritage Action for America, a group that frequently and publicly clashes with Boehner. Asked afterward if he was interested in running for speaker, Hensarling initially said he was "flattered," and said, "It's not something I've aspired to. It's not something I'm thinking about." But then he left the door open, saying, "No, I haven't been Shermanesque, again I'm not sure there's any opportunity I want to foreclose." While Heritage Action's Chief Executive Officer Michael Needham told CNN that his group doesn't get involved in leadership races, the conservative group gave Hensarling a high-profile platform to outline his own conservative philosophy for governing. Needham said there is a "real need to take on sacred cows in Washington at time when the party too often looks after K Street," a reference to the downtown D.C. address for corporate lobbyists. He said, "Jeb Hensarling is a great spokesman and fighter for conservative values." Boehner has said he's staying put Boehner, in his 12th term in Congress and in his second as speaker, continues to insist he's not going anywhere and expects to remain in charge next year. But he raised questions earlier this month when he wouldn't commit to serving out another full term as speaker. At the beginning of the current Congress in January 2013, a dozen House GOP members voted for someone other than Boehner, or voted "present," an expression of no confidence. Many in that small group are convinced Boehner won't run for his post after this year's midterms or that he won't have the votes to keep that title. If Boehner decides to step down from the position, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor is popular among conservatives, and most expect him to move up and take the speaker's gavel. In that scenario conservatives could wage an effort to fill in top House GOP posts. Boehner on the establishment and the tea party Multiple House Republicans -- some who voted for Boehner in 2013 and some who didn't -- praised Hensarling as a solid conservative, but also told CNN there's a short list of others who are viable candidates. Many House Republicans interviewed by CNN declined to talk openly about potential leadership challenges, but admitted there are informal discussions about options. The names repeatedly raised include Ohio Republican Jim Jordan, who like Hensarling is a former chairman of the fiscally conservative Republican Study Committee; Louisiana Republican Rep. Steve Scalise, who currently heads that group; and Georgia Rep. Tom Price, another former study group leader who also served in Boehner's leadership team in the last Congress. "The one consensus point is that we'd like to see more conservatives in future leadership posts," Louisiana Republican John Fleming told CNN. But he cautioned for now there's no single alternative emerging to Boehner -- or anyone who might want to challenge the speaker's current top lieutenants -- Cantor and GOP Whip Kevin McCarthy. He said he expected more serious discussions to ramp up by the end of the summer. Hensarling's recent speech at Heritage may be a way to ensure his name gets in the mix. The Texas Republican used the speech to position himself firmly on the right. He called out his own party for breaking with its free market roots, arguing that the party should be shifting away from policies designed to help big business and the well-connected and instead champion policies to help the "Main Street competitive economy." The thrust of Hensarling's speech lines up with the message many on the right flank of the House GOP conference have been pushing. Idaho Republican Raul Labrador has publicly criticized House GOP leaders for pushing a legislative agenda that positions the GOP as the "party of big business" and doesn't resonate with small businesses and entrepreneurs. Challenging the party Hensarling argued those on Main Street are "not looking for a subsidy, earmark, tax preference or legislated advantage." On a series of issues -- tax reform, farm policy, reform of mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae -- Hensarling challenged his party to hold votes on legislation that would restructure current federal systems. The bulk of Hensarling's ire was directed at the Export Import Bank, the 80-year-old credit agency that gives out loans to companies to promote U.S. exports. The bank's lending authority is due to expire at the end of the year. Hensarling defended 2013 GOP shutdown strategy Hensarling held it up as the poster child of corporate welfare, citing that the vast majority of its taxpayer backed loans go to companies like aircraft manufacturing giant Boeing. He said getting rid of the bank "is a defining issue for our party and our movement." If Hensarling or anyone else is serious about mounting a challenge, the Republicans that CNN interviewed all agree that if they are serious they need to move soon. "It seems to me that the odds of there being some type of change within the leadership team seem to be more likely than less, and so as long as there are members talking about it it's better to do so early than late," Iowa Republican Rep. Steve King told CNN. North Carolina Republican Rep. Walter Jones, who opposed Boehner in the last election, told CNN that he hears from Republicans in his district that it's time for a leadership change in Washington. "There is a great deal of frustration," Jones said. He wasn't sure if Hensarling or someone else was the right fit, but said a successful campaign required several months or preparation. A few months ago unhappiness about Boehner's handling of government spending fights and concern he would negotiate with Democrats on a major immigration bill roiled the conference. But because members aren't coalescing around a single alternative, the vacuum gives Boehner some job security for now. Fleming said tension is down between conservatives and Boehner because the speaker agreed to form a select committee on the deadly Benghazi terror attack and hold a House vote that held former IRS official Lois Lerner in contempt for the controversy around her agency's targeting of conservative groups. He said "there are less things that divide us -- but the one question would be immigration."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/politics/benghazi-kerry-testify/index.html	politics	Kerry agrees to testify on Benghazi attack - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 01:14:09 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Secretary of State John Kerry has agreed to testify before the House Oversight Committee on the deadly Benghazi terror attack, according to a letter from his office to the panel that was obtained by CNN. Kerry was subpoenaed by Oversight panel Chairman Darrell Issa of California after new emails surfaced that Republicans say support their contention the Obama administration politicized its public response to the September 2012 assault. The attack on the U.S. diplomatic compound in eastern Libya killed Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans. It's not clear whether the recent formation of a House Select Committee to investigate Benghazi will impact the Oversight probe. The Republican-led Select Committee is still organizing and hasn't scheduled any hearings. According to the letter to Issa that was copied to top members of the Select Committee as well, the State Department said Kerry could not accommodate the Oversight panel's demand that he appear on May 29 due to scheduling conflicts. However, the letter said Kerry was "prepared to appear" at a later hearing, which the panel has now set for June 12. "The committee looks forward to his appearance," Frederick Hill, a spokesman for the panel, said in a statement. Additionally, the State Department believes that an appearance before Issa's committee next month would "remove any need" for him to testify before the Select Committee to "answer additional questions." Ex-SEALs, online gaming maven among Benghazi dead  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/politics/thad-cochran-profile/index.html	politics	Sen. Thad Cochran, a quiet pragmatist facing re-election challenge - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 05:09:24 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- The devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina along the Mississippi coast was fresh in Haley Barbour's mind when he met with Sen. Thad Cochran and other members of the congressional delegation about aid in 2005. "My first trip to Washington after Katrina, Senator Cochran said, 'You tell me what the state needs and I'll try to get it,'" Barbour told CNN. "He never deviated from that and ultimately he succeeded." Cochran did it, Barbour and political observers said, by employing the same sort of quiet, persistence that has marked his 36-year tenure in the Senate. He worked behind the scenes, talking with colleagues, negotiating and eventually he was able to net $29 billion in relief money. He also worked across the aisle with Democrat Sen. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana to reform the law governing federal disaster relief policies aimed at helping communities recover. Their efforts helped ensure that the victims of broad devastation, such as the type seen after Hurricane Katrina and Superstorm Sandy in 2012, could get aid for housing and rebuilding. "In our time of greatest need, he was the giant in the delegation for Mississippi," Barbour said. Now, one of the longest serving lawmakers in Congress is facing a very different type of storm. Cochran is a septuagenarian facing a serious challenge from arch-conservative Chris McDaniel, a state senator who is just over half his age and has the grassroots support of the tea party, the Club for Growth and Sarah Palin. The stakes are especially high in Mississippi as the tea party reels from Republican primary setbacks in Kentucky and other states this spring. Blogger's arrest shakes up Mississippi Republican primary The race leading up to the June 3 primary vote has gotten ugly. This month, police arrested political blogger Clayton Kelly after authorities said he broke into a nursing home where Cochran's wife, Rose, has lived for roughly 14 years and snapped pictures of the elderly woman which ended up in a political attack ad on YouTube, according to The Clarion-Ledger. Both Cochran and McDaniel denounced the act, but the fallout has led to accusations of dirty politics through attack ads. "I think Senator Cochran is generally viewed positively by the electorate as a whole," said John Bruce, chairman of the University of Mississippi's political science department. "However, among those voters who are likely to take part in the Republican primary, his numbers are not as high." Though the Cook Political Report and the Rothenberg Political Report both have the senate seat as remaining solidly in the Republican column, Stuart Rothenberg in April wrote: "Cochran, 76, is in trouble  in deep trouble  primarily because of changes in the Republican Party. But it's also true that the senator, and his campaign, didn't start his re-election effort where they needed to be." Complete Coverage: 2014 Midterm Elections That's partly because the very thing Cochran has cited as a strength: his tenure in Washington and power broker status, has been used by his tea party backed opponent to paint him as an antiquated Beltway insider. In 2010, Citizens Against Government Waste, a non profit government spending watchdog group, dubbed Cochran the "king of earmarks" after he netted roughly $490 million for projects he favored. Cochran has served as the chairman of the Appropriations Committee and the Agriculture Committee. In this role, he was able to help net federal funding for his alma mater, the University of Mississippi, for medical research, as well as money for defense contractors and protected the interests of Mississippi farmers, Barbour said. "He has worked hard in the state to make sure Mississippi got its fair share," Barbour said. Barbour's nephew, Henry, is an adviser to Mississippi Conservatives, a super PAC that is trying to get Cochran re-elected. Still, the challenge from McDaniel has Cochran on the defense, Bruce said. "I think McDaniel's campaign is a little bit of tea party, a little bit of personal attacks, and a little bit of ambition on McDaniel's part," Bruce said. "The mystery going forward is the magnitude of any impact from the photos of the senator's ailing wife." Short-lived tea party victories? The race's tenor seems a departure for someone who, friends like Barbour said, prides himself on being "a true gentleman." "He is a true gentleman. He is gracious, never says anything bad about anybody," Barbour said. "He is a quiet, but very able colleague. He's always been held in very high regard by people in both parties." Cochran's mother was a school teacher; his father was a principal. This educationally steeped environment helped shaped his core values, the lawmaker has told the media over the years. Though he was a high school football star in Hinds County, Mississippi, he decided to join the cheerleading squad at the University of Mississippi  an experience he credits with his first taste of politics. Key races to watch in 2014 "You had to go around to the different residence houses and fraternity and sorority houses and campaign, answer questions and make a little speech about why you thought you'd be a good cheerleader," Cochran told Roll Call in 2011. Fellow Mississippi Republican and former Sen. Trent Lott was also an Ole Miss cheerleader a few years after Cochran. Cochran followed his cheerleading stint with service in the Navy. He earned a law degree, practiced and also headed Richard Nixon's 1968 campaign in Mississippi. Cochran was elected to the House in 1972, serving three terms before moving on to the Senate. "I think he's a pragmatic politician that understands getting a half a loaf most of the time is better than never getting anything while you hold out for a whole loaf," Bruce said. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/politics/obama-foreign-policy-five-things/index.html	politics	Five foreign policy headaches for Obama - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 12:13:16 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- President Barack Obama will defend his foreign policy Wednesday in a commencement address at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and lay out an interventionist, but not over-reaching plan, White House officials say. The speech comes amid stinging criticism of the President's foreign policy following a trip to Asia last month. Obama, who has carefully avoided mentioning any sort of military confrontation in his responses to the challenges in Syria and Ukraine, hit back at his critics, saying his goal is to avoid costly "errors" on the world stage. But the world waits for no man. Obama may advocate a risk-averse foreign policy, but he has a series of pressing global challenges which are likely to dominate the remainder of his term. Here are a few: Russia The political crisis in Ukraine and President Vladimir Putin's annexation of Crimea have led to tensions between the United States and Russia that are reminiscent of the Cold War. Those tensions quickly have become the Obama administration's central foreign policy crisis and have tested Washington's mettle and its alliance with Europe. The United States and its allies have accused Moscow of backing militant separatists and fomenting ethnic skirmishes in eastern Ukraine, and while praising Ukraine's elections this weekend, have charged Russia with attempting to disrupt the vote. Russia has been kicked out of the G8 group of industrialized countries, and the United States and the European Union have slapped a series of sanctions on Russian officials and entities. But a military response has been all but ruled out and there seems to be little if any taste on either side of the Atlantic for the kind of sectoral sanctions which would deter Putin. The United States says Russia is feeling the economic heat from the sanctions, but this month in Shanghai, Putin signed a deal with Chinese President Xi Jinping to provide China with $400 billion worth of natural gas from Siberia over the next 30 years. Moreover, Russia has proven it can impose costs of its own. Although Washington and Moscow teamed up on a deal to rid Syria of its chemical weapons, Russia's political and military support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and its pledge to provide weapons to governments across the Mideast continue to frustrate the United States. With a veto-wielding permanent seat on the U.N. Security Council, Russia is able to block action on world crises. The U.S. needs to work with Russia on a nuclear deal with Iran and on curbing North Korea's own nuclear ambitions. In today's world, a new Cold War simply seems impractical. Syria Three years into Syria's bloody civil war, the opposition remains weak and fragmented, extremists continue to grow in numbers and influence and al-Assad remains firmly in power. A year-long effort to bring the opposition and the regime to the table for peace talks was a failure, and a political negotiation seems further away than ever while the humanitarian catastrophe continues to grow. Despite the U.S.-Russia agreement to remove Syria's chemical weapons, the regime is believed to have launched chlorine attacks which are now being investigated by U.N. inspectors. The administration talks of needing to change al-Assad's "calculus," but Obama has resisted pressure from many of his top advisers to involve the United States deeper in the conflict. Without a decisive change in the balance of power on the military field, it seems unlikely al-Assad will feel compelled to make a deal. Iran World powers are just under two months away from a July 20 deadline for a comprehensive deal with Iran on its nuclear program. An interim pact reached with Tehran in November eased some economic sanctions in return for Iran rolling back parts of its nuclear program, which the United States and others believe is designed to produce a weapon. Iran says its nuclear intentions are peaceful. U.S. negotiators say progress has been made in several rounds of negotiations and the so-called P5+1 -- the United States, China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany -- and Iran have begun to draft an agreement. But a number of significant roadblocks remain, including the future of Iran's heavy water reactor in Arak, its underground facility at Fordo and whether Iran will maintain the right to enrich a small amount of low-grade uranium on its own soil for medical and research purposes. Iran has said those are all sticking points, but Israel and the United States aren't likely to budge on them. A recent U.N. report also warned that Iran continues to pursue ballistic missile capability and Tehran appears unwilling to discuss its missile technology as part of the nuclear negotiations, to the great frustration of the U.S. and its European allies. New concerns have also surfaced over reports that Russia and Iran are discussing an oil-for-goods deal, which could violate the terms of the interim agreement, circumvent sanctions and derail the fate of the talks. Terror threat The United States got Osama bin Laden and diminished the capacity of al Qaeda's senior leadership in Pakistan, but a recent State Department report said the terror group's affiliate organizations have gotten even deadlier. And a series of al Qaeda-based threats to attack American and Western targets in Europe is causing major concern inside the U.S. intelligence community. The State Department report said the group's affiliate in Yemen -- al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula -- is among the most lethal of the network and "continues to pose the most significant threat to the United States," which shut down its Embassy in Yemen due to the threats. The civil war in Syria has created conditions allowing parts of the country to become a new haven for al Qaeda-linked groups and thousands of foreign fighters -- a situation that U.S. officials warn could come back to threaten the U.S. homeland. Next door in Iraq, a weak security environment in the western section of the country, along with the destabilizing effects of the situation in Syria, have allowed a former al Qaeda affiliate, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, to move across the border with ease to conduct its own attacks. Terrorist groups across North and West Africa are posing an ever-greater threat -- from Mali and Libya, where al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb and other extremists groups are growing in strength -- to Kenya, where militants from al-Shabaab, an al Qaeda-linked group in Somalia, are blamed for an increasing number of attacks. The recent kidnapping of hundreds of Nigerian schoolgirls by Boko Haram has suddenly raised the profile of this al Qaeda-linked group. While al Qaeda's affiliates are grabbing the headlines, the body's core group in Pakistan may be making a comeback. Officials tell CNN's Barbara Starr the core is seeking to place operatives to attack U.S. targets at home and abroad. Asia The more pressing crises in Ukraine and Syria have prevented the Obama administration from focusing on the long anticipated "pivot to Asia," billed as an effort to cement American presence in the region and counter China's rise. However, the region is experiencing significant chaos, and managing China has proven a formidable challenge. Tensions continue to escalate between Japan and China over a set of deserted islands in the East China Sea. Beijing is also stepping up its territorial claims in the South China Sea, and this week a Chinese vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat after a series of anti-Chinese riots that left four Chinese workers dead and more than 100 injured. The two closest U.S. allies in the region -- Japan and South Korea -- are feuding over what Seoul perceives as inadequate remorse from its brutal colonization and the use of Korean "comfort women" during World War II. Elsewhere in the region, Thailand's military seized power in a bloodless coup. And Washington's ambitions at increasing trade in the region appear stalled. Obama traveled to Japan last month to forge a deal with Japan to move ahead with the 12-nation free-trade Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) but left Tokyo empty-handed. The turmoil is distracting from the region's most dangerous threat -- unpredictable North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his nuclear arsenal. Kim's erratic behavior and threats of a fourth nuclear test have prompted the United States and Korea to shelve the scheduled transfer of wartime operational control of troops on the Korean peninsula from Washington to Seoul. And more ... Plenty of other challenges remain: from managing relations with Egypt after the near-certain election of former defense minister Abdel Fattah al-Sissi -- whose interim government has been accused of widespread human rights abuses -- to salvaging the Mideast peace process, after talks broke down last month. As Obama winds down the war in Afghanistan, violence is surging in Iraq, the first war he brought to a close -- a potent reminder the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan must be managed carefully. And as the President seeks to articulate a foreign policy that avoids aggressive military entanglements while countering critics calling for a more aggressive U.S. foreign policy, it remains certain that his inbox will remain full. READ: With Afghanistan plan revealed, Obama to spell out foreign policy vision  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/world/africa/nigeria-violence/index.html	world	80 U.S. troops in Chad will aid search for abducted Nigerian girls - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 07:04:15 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The United States deployed 80 members of its armed forces to Chad to help in the search for the kidnapped Nigerian schoolgirls, the White House said Wednesday. "These personnel will support the operation of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft for missions over northern Nigeria and the surrounding area," it said in a letter. "The force will remain in Chad until its support in resolving the kidnapping situation is no longer required." President Barack Obama informed the House speaker and the president of the Senate of the move. The forces will be involved in maintaining aircraft and analyzing data, but because they are armed, the President is required by law to inform the speaker of the House, Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. John Kirby said. "These are not combat infantry troops that we put into Chad," Kirby told CNN's "The Lead with Jake Tapper" on Wednesday. "These are folks that are there to support the reconnaissance mission." Boko Haram abducted more than 200 girls last month from a school in northern Nigeria. Officials have speculated that the militants may have transported them to neighboring Chad or Cameroon, but it's not clear where the girls are or whether they've left Nigeria. So why are troops deploying to Chad? "Just geographically, Chad's a great location to do this from," Kirby said, adding that the United States has a good relationship with its government. Reconnaissance flights will be searching an area roughly the size of West Virginia, he said, that includes parts of Nigeria and other countries. The deployment is not based on any new intelligence leads, a senior administration official said. "The truth is, we don't know exactly where they are," Kirby said. "We still believe that they've broken up into small groups and dispersed." A U.S. Predator drone will now be aiding in the search for the girls, a Pentagon official told CNN. Half of the new group of U.S. troops will be operating the launch and recovery of the unarmed drone on its missions, and half of them will be providing security on the ground in Chad. Nigeria asks U.N. to designate Boko Haram as terrorist group Also Wednesday, Nigeria asked the United Nations to designate Boko Haram as a terrorist organization as its escalating attacks spread alarm nationwide. If approved, it will enable countries to impose arms embargoes, travel bans and asset freezes. A United Nations al Qaeda committee is expected to decide when it meets Thursday. Nigeria's request lists the terror group as an affiliate of al Qaeda. This is a "significant step" in the fight against terror, said Joy Ogwu, the Nigerian ambassador to the United Nations. The United States branded Boko Haram a terrorist group last year, providing greater access to its finances and more ability to limit its movements. U.S. officials have said Boko Haram does not have financing in the United States. The insurgent group has escalated its attacks in Africa's most populous nation as its bloodletting extends far beyond its hotbed in the rural northeast. In attacks that appear to be getting more frequent, twin blasts killed at least 118 people Tuesday at a market in the central city of Jos. The explosions went off 20 to 30 minutes apart, sparking an inferno that sent crowds running and screaming, covered in blood. Nigerian authorities described the blasts as "terrorist activities" but declined to speculate on who might be responsible. In separate attacks in Borno state this week, at least 30 people were killed by members of the terror group, according to local residents. Boko Haram attackers swooped in on motorcycles Monday and killed 10 people in one village, residents said. A day later, gunmen stormed a nearby village and killed 20 others, residents said. During the attacks, Boko Haram set fire to homes and food stores, residents said, and fired machine guns. The group has not claimed responsibility for those attacks. Both villages are close to where the more than 200 schoolgirls were kidnapped. Boko Haram claimed responsibility in a chilling video and said he was willing to free the girls in exchange for imprisoned militants. "These vicious attacks on defenseless Nigerian civilians and Boko Haram's abduction last month of more than 200 girls in Chibok are unconscionable, terrorist acts demanding accountability and justice," the U.S. State Department said in a statement. Officials condemn attacks, vow to stamp out terrorism The sudden escalation of attacks, together with the failure to find the missing schoolgirls, has spread concern about the government's inability to quash the insurgency. Protesters have gathered daily nationwide to express frustration over the lack of progress in rescuing the schoolgirls. "Last weekend in Paris the international community and regional leaders made clear their collective determination to support Nigeria and defeat the scourge of terrorism," the UK Foreign Office said in a statement. "The Jos attack has only strengthened our resolve." Nigeria and four neighboring countries -- including Chad -- will share intelligence and border surveillance in the search for the missing girls while Western nations will provide technical expertise and training in a new effort against the extremists. The plan was announced over the weekend during a security summit hosted by French President Francois Hollande to address the growing threats from the group. Boko Haram translates to "Western education is a sin" in the Hausa language. It says its aim is to impose a stricter enforcement of Sharia law across Nigeria, which is split between a majority Muslim north and a mostly Christian south. Blasts at market kill 118 in central Nigeria, official says Opinion: Media turns Boko Haram into 'superstar monsters' Devastating Nigeria attacks show twisted ambition of Boko Haram CNN's Barbara Starr and Richard Roth and journalist Aminu AbuBakr contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/politics/military-force-authorization/index.html	politics	Setback for ending the 'never-ending' war - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 10:28:53 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- The Obama administration and many of its national security critics agree that it's time to revisit the war authorization that Congress approved a week after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. But when to end it and how to replace it is another matter. The House defeated an amendment by Rep. Adam Schiff, D-California, that would have "sunsetted" the so-called "never-ending war" a year from now. Attention now turns to the Senate and whether a proposal will emerge there. The law authorized a military response to the terrorist attacks by striking back against al Qaeda and associated forces, including their Taliban allies, who at the time ruled Afghanistan. Its scope is broad enough that it has been used by successive administrations to carry out military attacks as far afield as Africa and Yemen. When to end it is a prickly enough issue that the White House has done little to move ahead with President Barack Obama's promise, as described in a 2013 speech at the National Defense University, to work with Congress to "refine and ultimately repeal" the Authorization for Use of Military Force, or AUMF. As in other national security policy fights -- that of drones, for instance -- the rise of tea party-affiliated libertarians and Obama's sagging popularity have scrambled some of the traditional alliances on the war authorization. Liberals and right-leaning libertarians who criticize the war authorization as too much of a blank check to the President are uniting to support a repeal of it as a way to assert congressional authority. Some conservatives -- who not long ago supported extending the current AUMF -- now suggest replacing it with a law that specifies the groups the U.S. is fighting. "I think we have abdicated our responsibility to define the nature of the conflict we're in," Schiff said in an interview. His amendment appeared to have gained steam, in part because the White House has struggled to make clear what it thinks should happen. At a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing Wednesday, senior lawyers from the Defense and State departments said repealing the law would do no harm to national security or affect military operations, because the President's executive powers allow a military response to any threats to the nation. And yet, they wouldn't say whether the administration supported ending the war now. "We're not here to say it should be repealed today," said Mary Mcleod, deputy legal adviser at the State Department. The issue matters because U.S. forces are exiting a war in Afghanistan that lasted more than twice as long as World War II. Some legal experts believe that development adds some pressure to replace the existing AUMF, in part, because the main al Qaeda forces that attacked the U.S. have been decimated, even as new offshoots have metastasized the terrorist threat to parts of Africa, Syria and the Arabian Peninsula. Michael Mukasey, attorney general under President George W. Bush, said at the Wednesday hearing that he supports the idea of Congress revisiting the authorization to clarify its intent. Harold Koh, the State Department's top lawyer under Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, said the law should be narrowed and eventually repealed. Administration officials say part of the complication lies in ongoing negotiations with Afghanistan over whether the United States will retain forces in that country after this year, a deal that can't be reached until after Afghanistan elects a new president in June. "As we work with the government of Afghanistan to identify an appropriate U.S. military presence in Afghanistan after 2014; as we continue to make progress towards the closure of the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay; and as we continue to work with our friends and partners around the world to provide assistance and training to counter al Qaeda and its associated forces, we will engage further with Congress and the American people on efforts to ensure that the legal authorities for our counterterrorism and detention operations are appropriately tailored," said Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for the National Security Council. "In keeping with our ongoing efforts to realign our forces and capabilities after the drawdown in Afghanistan, we look forward to engaging the Congress on the President's goal of refining and ultimately repealing the AUMF," she added. Only three years ago, Congress was being pressured to expand the authorization. In 2011, Rep. Buck McKeon, R-California, tried to pass a new AUMF to reaffirm the war against al Qaeda and to try to restrict the President's hand on issues such as the plan to close the Guantanamo prison. McKeon's push to give the existing war authorization more life has partly influenced the Obama administration's effort on the issue. Two administration officials told CNN that part of the reason for the White House's hesitation is the fear that some congressional hawks would use the opportunity to expand the so-called War on Terror. Or that the administration could end up without any authorization at all. In his State of the Union speeches this year and last, Obama said he aimed to pull the United States back from its "permanent war footing." Some congressional critics say Obama's policies appear to prematurely declare victory over al Qaeda's core leadership, and ignore the growing threat from affiliates such as al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and groups fighting in Syria, Iraq and Libya. With partisan bickering sowing gridlock in Congress, passing any law on the war authorization is a tall order. Congress is also debating surveillance law changes in the wake of the leaks about the U.S. government's spying activities by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. Schiff scoffs at the notion it's too hard to tackle. "We drafted the AUMF in days after 9/11; we should be able to do this in a year," he said. After all, "one of the most important things that Congress does is to declare war and define the focus of that war."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/politics/obama-west-point-foreign-policy-transcript/index.html	politics	President Obama's remarks at West Point - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 11:59:44 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, General Caslen, for that introduction. To General Trainor and General Clarke, the faculty and staff at West Point, you have been outstanding stewards of this proud institution and outstanding mentors for the newest officers in the United States Army. I'd like to acknowledge the Army's leadership, General McHugh -- Secretary McHugh, General Odierno, as well as Senator Jack Reed who is here and a proud graduate of West Point himself. To the class of 2014, I congratulate you on taking your place on the Long Gray Line. Among you is the first all-female command team: Erin Mauldin and Austen Boroff. In Calla Glavin, you have a Rhodes Scholar, and Josh Herbeck proves that West Point accuracy extends beyond the three-point line. To the entire class, let me reassure you in these final hours at West Point, as commander in chief, I hereby absolve all cadets who are on restriction for minor conduct offenses. Let me just add that nobody ever did that for me when I was in school. I know you join me in extending a word of thanks to your families. Joe DeMoss, whose son James is graduating, spoke for a whole lot of parents when he wrote me a letter about the sacrifices you've made. "Deep inside," he wrote, "we want to explode with pride at what they are committing to do in the service of our country." Like several graduates, James is a combat veteran. And I would ask all of us here today to stand and pay tribute, not only to the veterans among us, but to the more than 2.5 million Americans who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as their families. This is a particularly useful time for America to reflect on those who've sacrificed so much for our freedom. A few days after Memorial Day. You are the first class to graduate since 9/11 who may not be sent into combat in Iraq or Afghanistan. When I first spoke at West Point in 2009, we still had more than 100,000 troops in Iraq. We were preparing to surge in Afghanistan. Our counterterrorism efforts were focused on Al Qaeda's core leadership, those who had carried out the 9/11 attacks. And our nation was just beginning a long climb out of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Four and a half years later, as you graduate, the landscape has changed. We have removed our troops from Iraq. We are winding down our war in Afghanistan. Al Qaeda's leadership on the border region between Pakistan and Afghanistan has been decimated, and Osama bin Laden is no more. And, through it all, we have refocused our investments in what has always been a key source of American strength, a growing economy that can provide opportunity for everybody who's willing to work hard and take responsibility here at home. In fact, by most measures, America has rarely been stronger relative to the rest of the world. Those who argue otherwise, who suggest that America is in decline or has seen its global leadership slip away, are either misreading history or engaged in partisan politics. Think about it. Our military has no peer. The odds of a direct threat against us by any nation are low, and do not come close to the dangers we faced during the Cold War. Meanwhile, our economy remains the most dynamic on Earth; our businesses the most innovative. Each year, we grow more energy independent. From Europe to Asia, we are the hub of alliances unrivaled in the history of nations. America continues to attract striving immigrants. The values of our founding inspire leaders in parliaments and new movements in public squares around the globe. And when a typhoon hits the Philippines, or schoolgirls are kidnapped in Nigeria, or masked men occupy a building in Ukraine -- it is America that the world looks to for help. So the United States is and remains the one indispensable nation. It has been true for the century passed, and will likely be true for the century to come. But the world is changing with accelerating speed. This presents opportunity, but also new dangers. We know all too well, after 9/11, just how technology and globalization has put power once reserved for states in the hands of the individuals, raising the capacity of terrorists to do harm. Russia's aggression towards former Soviet states unnerves capitals in Europe, while China's economic rise and military reach worries its neighbors. From Brazil to India, rising middle classes compete with us, and governments seek a greater say in global forums. And even as developing nations embrace democracy and market economies, 24 hour news and social media makes it impossible to ignore the continuation of sectarian conflicts and failing states and popular uprisings that might have received only passing notice a generation ago. It will be your generation's task to respond to this new world. The question we face, the question each of you will face is not whether America will lead, but how we will lead, not just to secure our peace and prosperity, but also extend peace and prosperity around the globe. Now, this question isn't new. At least since George Washington served as commander-in-chief, there have been those who warned against foreign entanglements that do not touch directly on our security or economic well being. Today, according to self-described realists, conflicts in Syria or Ukraine or the Central African Republic are not ours to solve. And not surprisingly, after costly wars and continuing challenges here at home, that view is shared by many Americans. A different view from interventionists from the left and the right says that we ignore these conflicts at our own peril, that America's willingness to apply force around the world is the ultimate safeguard against chaos, and America's failure to act in the face of Syrian brutality or Russian provocations not only violates our conscience, but invites escalating aggression in the future. And each side can point to history to support its claims. But I believe neither view fully speaks to the demands of this moment. It is absolutely true that in the 21st century, American isolationism is not an option. We don't have a choice to ignore what happens beyond our borders. If nuclear materials are not secure, that poses a danger to American citizens. As the Syrian civil war spills across borders, the capacity of battle-hardened extremist groups to come after us only increases. Regional aggression that goes unchecked, whether in southern Ukraine or the South China Sea, or anywhere else in the world, will ultimately impact our allies and could draw in our military. We can't ignore what happens beyond our boundaries. And beyond these narrow rationales, I believe we have a real stake, abiding self-interest, in making sure our children and our grandchildren grow up in a world where school girls are not kidnapped, and where individuals are not slaughtered because of tribe or faith or political belief. I believe that a world of greater freedom and tolerance is not only a moral imperative, it also helps keep us safe. But to say that we have an interest in pursuing peace and freedom beyond our borders is not to say that every problem has a military solution. Since World War II, some of our most costly mistakes came not from our restraint, but from our willingness to rush into military adventures -- without thinking through the consequences; without building international support and legitimacy for our action; without leveling with the American people about the sacrifice required. Tough talk often draws headlines, but war rarely conforms to slogans. As General Eisenhower, someone with hard-earned knowledge on this subject, said at this ceremony in 1947: "War is mankind's most tragic and stupid folly; to seek or advise its deliberate provocation is a black crime against all men." Like Eisenhower, this generation of men and women in uniform know all too well the wages of war. And that includes those of you here at West Point. Four of the servicemembers who stood in the audience when I announced the surge of our forces in Afghanistan gave their lives in that effort. A lot more were wounded. I believe America's security demanded those deployments. But I am haunted by those deaths. I am haunted by those wounds. And I would betray my duty to you, and to the country we love, if I ever sent you into harm's way simply because I saw a problem somewhere in the world that needed to be fixed, or because I was worried about critics who think military intervention is the only way for America to avoid looking weak. Here's my bottom line: America must always lead on the world stage. If we don't, no one else will. The military that you have joined is, and always will be, the backbone of that leadership. But U.S. military action cannot be the only -- or even primary -- component of our leadership in every instance. Just because we have the best hammer does not mean that every problem is a nail. And because the costs associated with military action are so high, you should expect every civilian leader -- and especially your commander in chief -- to be clear about how that awesome power should be used. So, let me spend the rest of my time describing my vision for how the United States of America, and our military, should lead in the years to come, for you will be part of that leadership. First, let me repeat a principle I put forward at the outset of my presidency: the United States will use military force, unilaterally if necessary, when our core interests demand it, when our people are threatened, when our livelihoods are at stake, when the security of our allies is in danger. In these circumstances, we still need to ask tough questions about whether our actions are proportional and effective and just. International opinion matters, but America should never ask permission to protect our people, our homeland or our way of life. On the other hand, when issues of global concern do not pose a direct threat to the United States, when such issues are at stake, when crises arrive that stir our conscience or push the world in a more dangerous direction, but do not directly threaten us, then the threshold for military action must be higher. In such circumstances, we should not go it alone. Instead, we must mobilize allies and partners to take collective action. We have to broaden our tools to include diplomacy and development, sanctions and isolation, appeals to international law, and if just, necessary and effective, multilateral military action. In such circumstances, we have to work with others because collective action in these circumstances is more likely to succeed, more likely to be sustained, less likely to lead to costly mistakes. This leads to my second point. For the foreseeable future, the most direct threat to America at home and abroad remains terrorism. But a strategy that involves invading every country that harbors terrorist networks is naive and unsustainable. I believe we must shift our counterterrorism strategy, drawing on the successes and shortcomings of our experience in Iraq and Afghanistan, to more effectively partner with countries where terrorist networks seek a foothold. And the need for a new strategy reflects the fact that today's principal threat no longer comes from a centralized Al Qaida leadership. Instead, it comes from decentralized Al Qaida affiliates and extremists, many with agendas focused in countries where they operate. And this lessens the possibility of large-scale 9/11-style attacks against the homeland, but it heightens the danger of U.S. personnel overseas being attacked, as we saw in Benghazi. It heightens the danger to less defensible targets, as we saw in a shopping mall in Nairobi. So we have to develop a strategy that matches this diffuse threat, one that expands our reach without sending forces that stretch our military too thin or stir up local resentments. We need partners to fight terrorists along-side us. And empowering partners is a large part of what we have done and what we are currently doing in Afghanistan. Together with our allies, America struck huge blows against Al Qaida core and pushed back against an insurgency that threatened to overrun the country. But sustaining this progress depends on the ability of Afghans to do the job. And that's why we trained hundreds of thousands of Afghan soldiers and police. Earlier this spring, those forces, those Afghan forces, secured an election in which Afghans voted for the first democratic transfer of power in their history. And at the end of this year, a new Afghan President will be in office, and America's combat mission will be over. Now, that was an enormous achievement made because of America's armed forces. But as we move to a train and advise mission in Afghanistan, our reduced presence there allows us to more effectively address emerging threats in the Middle East and North Africa. So earlier this year, I asked my national security team to develop a plan for a network of partnerships from South Asia to the Sahel. Today, as part of this effort, I am calling on Congress to support a new Counter-Terrorism Partnerships Fund of up to $5 billion, which will allow us to train, build capacity, and facilitate partner countries on the front lines. And these resources will give us flexibility to fulfill different missions, including training security forces in Yemen who have gone on the offensive against al Qaida; supporting a multinational force to keep the peace in Somalia; working with European allies to train a functioning security force and border patrol in Libya; and facilitating French operations in Mali. A critical focus of this effort will be the ongoing crisis in Syria. As frustrating as it is, there are no easy answers there. No military solution that can eliminate the terrible suffering any time soon. As president, I made a decision that we should not put American troops into the middle of this increasingly sectarian war, and I believe that is the right decision. But that does not mean we shouldn't help the Syrian people stand up against a dictator who bombs and starves his own people. And in helping those who fight for the right of all Syrians to choose their own future, we are also pushing back against the growing number of extremists who find safe haven in the chaos. So with the additional resources I'm announcing today, we will step up our efforts to support Syria's neighbors: Jordan and Lebanon, Turkey and Iraq, as they contend with refugees and confront terrorists working across Syria's borders. I will work with Congress to ramp up support for those in the Syrian opposition who offer the best alternative to terrorists and brutal dictators. And we will continue to coordinate with our friends in Europe and the Arab world to push for a political resolution of this crisis, and to make sure that those countries and not just the United States are contributing their fair share to support the Syrian people. Let me make one final point about our efforts against terrorism. The partnerships I described do not eliminate the need to take direct action, when necessary, to protect ourselves. When we have actionable intelligence, that's what we do. Through capture operations, like the one that brought a terrorist involved in the plot to bomb our embassies in 1998 to face justice, or drone strikes, like those we've carried out in Yemen and Somalia. There are times when those actions are necessary, and we cannot hesitate to protect our people, but as I said last year, in taking direct action, we must uphold standards that reflect our values. That means taking strikes only when we face a continuing, imminent threat, and only where there is no certainty -- where there is near certainty of no civilian casualties. For our actions should meet a simple test: we must not create more enemies than we take off the battlefield. I also believe we must be more transparent about both the basis of our counter-terrorism actions and the manner in which they are carried out. We have to be able to explain them publicly, whether it is drone strikes or trading partners. I will increasingly turn to our military to take the lead and provide information to the public about our efforts. Our intelligence community has done outstanding work, and we have to continue to protect sources and methods, but when we cannot explain our efforts clearly and publicly, we face terrorist propaganda and international suspicion, we erode legitimacy with our partners and our people, and we reduce accountability in our own government. And this issue of transparency is directly relevant to a third aspect of American leadership, and that is our effort to strengthen and enforce international order. After World War II, America had the wisdom to shape institutions to keep the peace and support human progress, from NATO and the United Nations, to the World Bank and IMF. These institutions are not perfect, but they have been a force multiplier. They reduce the need for unilateral American action and increase restraint among other nations. Now, just as the world has changed, this architecture must change as well. At the height of the Cold War, President Kennedy spoke about the need for a peace based upon "a gradual evolution in human institutions." And evolving these international institutions to meet the demands of today must be a critical part of American leadership. Now, there are a lot of folks, a lot of skeptics, who often downplay the effectiveness of multilateral action. For them, working through international institutions, like the U.N., or respecting international law is a sign of weakness. I think they're wrong. Let me offer just two examples why. In Ukraine, Russia's recent actions recall the days when Soviet tanks rolled into Eastern Europe. But this isn't the Cold War. Our ability to shape world opinion helped isolate Russia right away. Because of American leadership, the world immediately condemned the Russian actions. Europe and the G-7 joined us to impose sanctions. NATO reinforced our commitment to Eastern European allies. The IMF is helping to stabilize Ukraine's economy. OSCE monitors brought the eyes of the world to unstable parts of Ukraine. And this mobilization of world opinion and international institutions served as a counterweight to Russian propaganda and Russian troops on the border and armed militias in ski masks. This weekend, Ukrainians voted by the millions. Yesterday, I spoke to their next president. We don't know how the situation will play out, and there will remain grave challenges ahead. But standing with our allies on behalf of international order, working with international institutions, has given a chance for the Ukrainian people to choose their future, without us firing a shot. Similarly, despite frequent warnings from the United States and Israel and others, the Iranian nuclear program steadily advanced for years. At the beginning of my presidency, we built a coalition that imposed sanctions on the Iranian economy, while extending the hand of diplomacy to the Iranian government. And now, we have an opportunity to resolve our differences peacefully. The odds of success are still long, and we reserve all options to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. But for the first time in a decade, we have a very real chance of achieving a breakthrough agreement, one that is more effective and durable than what we could have achieved through the use of force. And throughout these negotiations, it has been our willingness to work through multilateral channels that kept the world on our side. The point is, this is American leadership; this is American strength. In each case, we built coalitions to respond to a specific challenge. Now we need to do more to strengthen the institutions that can anticipate and prevent problems from spreading. For example, NATO is the strongest alliance the world has ever known. But we're now working with NATO allies to meet new missions -- both within Europe, where our Eastern allies must be reassured; and also beyond Europe's borders, where our NATO allies have to pull their weight to counterterrorism and respond to failed states, and train a network of partners. Likewise, the U.N. provides a platform to keep the peace in states torn apart by conflict. Now we need to make sure that those nations who provide peacekeepers have the training and equipment to actually keep the peace, so we can prevent the type of killing we've seen in Congo and Sudan. We are going to deepen our investment in countries that support these missions. Because having other nations maintain order in their own neighborhoods lessens the need for us to put our own troops in harm's way. It's a smart investment. It's the right way to lead. Keep in mind, not all international norms relate directly to armed conflict. We have a serious problem with cyber-attacks, which is why we're working to shape and enforce rules of the road to secure our networks and our citizens. In the Asia Pacific, we're supporting Southeast Asian nations as they negotiate a code of conduct with China on maritime disputes in the South China Sea, and we're working to resolve these disputes through international law. That spirit of cooperation needs to energize the global effort to combat climate change, a creeping national security crisis that will help shape your time in uniform as we are called on to respond to refugee flows and natural disasters and conflicts over water and food. Which is why next year, I intend to make sure America is out front in putting together a global framework to preserve our planet. You see, American influence is always stronger when we lead by example. We can't exempt ourselves from the rules that apply to everybody else. We can't call on others to make commitments to combat climate change if a whole lot of our political leaders deny that it's taking place. We can't try to resolve problems in the South China Sea when we have refused to make sure that the Law of the Sea Convention is ratified by the United States Senate, despite that fact that our top military leaders say the treaty advances our national security. That's not leadership. That's retreat. That's not strength. That's weakness. It would be utterly foreign to leaders like Roosevelt and Truman, Eisenhower and Kennedy. I believe in American exceptionalism with every fiber of my being. But what makes us exceptional is not our ability to flout international norms and the rule of law. It is our willingness to affirm them through our actions. And that's why I will continue to push to close Gitmo, because American values and legal traditions do not permit the indefinite detention of people beyond our borders. That's why we're putting in place new restrictions on how America collects and uses intelligence, because will have fewer partners and be less effective if a perception takes hold that we're conducting surveillance against ordinary citizens. America does not simply stand for stability or the absence of conflict no matter what the cost. We stand for the more lasting peace that can only come through opportunity and freedom for people everywhere. Which brings me to the fourth and final element of American leadership -- our willingness to act on behalf of human dignity. America's support for democracy and human rights goes beyond idealism. It is a matter of national security. Democracies are our closest friends and are far less likely to go to war. Economies based on free and open markets perform better and become markets for our goods. Respect for human rights is an antidote to instability and the grievances that fuel violence and terror. A new century has brought no end to tyranny. In capitals around the globe, including unfortunately some of America's partners, there's been a crackdown on civil society. The cancer of corruption has enriched too many governments and their cronies and enraged citizens from remote villages to iconic squares. And watching these trends, or the violent upheavals in parts of the Arab world, it's easy to be cynical. But remember that because of America's efforts, because of American diplomacy and foreign assistance, as well as the sacrifices of our military, more people live under elected governments today than at any time in human history. Technology is empowering civil society in ways that no iron fist can control. New breakthroughs are lifting of hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, and even the upheaval of the Arab world reflects the rejection of an authoritarian order that was anything but stable, and now offers the long-term prospect of more responsive and effective governance. In countries like Egypt, we acknowledge that our relationship is anchored in security interests, from peace treaties to Israel to shared efforts against violent extremism. So, we have not cut off cooperation with the new government, but we can and will persistently press for reforms that the Egyptian people have demanded. And meanwhile, look at a country like Burma, which only a few years ago was an intractable dictatorship and hostile to the United States. 40 million people. Thanks to the enormous courage of the people in that country, and because we took the diplomatic initiative, American leadership, we have seen political reforms opening a once-closed society. A movement by Burmese leadership away from partnership with North Korea, in favor of engagement with America and our allies. We're now supporting reform and badly needed national reconciliation through assistance and investment, through coaxing and, at times, public criticism. And progress there could be reversed. But if Burma succeeds, we will have gained a new partner without having fired a shot. American leadership. In each these cases, we should not expect change to happen overnight. That's why we form alliances, not just with governments, but also with ordinary people. For, unlike other nations, America is not afraid of individual empowerment. We are strengthened by it. We're strengthened by civil society. We're strengthened by a free press. We're strengthened by striving entrepreneurs and small businesses. We're strengthened by our educational exchange and opportunity for all people, and women and girls. That's who we are. That's what we represent. I saw that through the trip to Africa last year, where American assistance has made possible the prospect of an AIDS-free generation, while helping Africans care themselves for their sick. We're helping farmers get their products to market, to feed populations once endangered by famine. We aim to double access to electricity in sub- Saharan Africa, so people are connected to the promises of the global economy. And all this creates new partners and shrinks the space for terrorism and conflict. Now, tragically, no American security operation can eradicate the threat posed by an extremist group like Boko Haram, the group that kidnapped those girls. And that's why we ought to focus not just on rescuing those girls right away, but also on supporting Nigerian efforts to educate its youth. It should be one of the hard-earned lessons of Iraq and Afghanistan, where our military became the strongest advocate for diplomacy and development. They understood that foreign assistance is not an afterthought -- something nice to do apart from our national defense, apart from our national security. It is part of what makes us strong. Ultimately, global leadership requires us to see the world as it is, with all its danger and uncertainty. We have to be prepared for the worst, prepared for every contingency. But American leadership also requires us to see the world as it should be -- a place where the aspirations of individual human beings really matters; where hopes and not just fears govern; where the truths written into our founding documents can steer the currents of history in a direction of justice. And we cannot do that without you. Class of 2014, you have taken this time to prepare on the quiet banks of the Hudson. You leave this place to carry forward a legacy that no other military in human history can claim. You do so as part of a team that extends beyond your units or even our armed forces, where in the course of your service, you will work as a team with diplomats and development experts. You'll get to know allies and train partners. And you will embody what it means for America to lead the world. Next week, I will go to Normandy, to honor the men who stormed the beaches there. And while it's hard for many Americans to comprehend the courage and sense of duty that guided those who boarded small ships, it's familiar to you. At West Point, you defined what it means to be a patriot. Three years ago, Gavin White graduated from this academy. He then served in Afghanistan. Like the soldiers who came before him, Gavin was in a foreign land, helping people he'd never met, putting himself in harm's way for the sake of his community and his family, of the folks back home. Gavin lost one of his legs in an attack. I met him last year at Walter Reed. He was wounded, but just as determined as the day that he arrived here at West Point, and he developed a simple goal. Today, his sister Morgan will graduate, and true to his promise, Gavin will be there to stand and exchange salutes with her. We have been through a long season of war. We have faced trials that were not foreseen. And we've seen the visions about how to move forward. But there is something in Gavin's character -- there is something in the American character that will always triumph. Leaving here, you carry with you the respect of your fellow citizens. You will represent a nation with history and hope on our side. Your charge now is not only to protect our country, but to do what is right and just. As your commander in chief, I know you will. May God bless you. May God bless our men and women in uniform. And may God bless the United States of America.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/politics/obama-foreign-policy-takeaways/index.html	politics	3 takeaways from Obama's foreign policy speech - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 02:32:11 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- President Barack Obama on Wednesday outlined his foreign policy vision and defended his record to date. What caught our experts' ears was as much about what he didn't address as much as what he did. Obama lays out foreign policy challenges Here are their takeaways: 1. Partner in Yemen still has problems: Obama's call for a new $5 billion counter-terrorism fund to "train, build capacity, and facilitate partner countries on the front lines" may find it tough going to achieve quick results. "These resources will give us flexibility to fulfill different missions, including training security forces in Yemen who have gone on the offensive against al Qaeda; supporting a multinational force to keep the peace in Somalia; working with European allies to train a functioning security force and border patrol in Libya; and facilitating French operations in Mali," the President said. But the challenge in Yemen alone may be significant. Some U.S. officials believe the problem there is that neither the Yemeni forces or al Qaeda operatives have fundamentally changed the territory they hold on the ground. Both sides are maneuvering, both attack and counterattack, but even with Yemeni military efforts, the basic power on the ground doesn't shift for either side. The problem with Yemen's military remains its inability to sustain itself in the field for a long period of time. There are additional challenges. In Libya, a training program is running into delays over how to ensure those being trained are not extremists. There is a similar challenge in training Syrian opposition forces. And in Nigeria, the U.S. military is legally banned from working with some Nigerian units because those units have been accused of human rights abuses. -- Barbara Starr, CNN Senior Pentagon Correspondent Transcript: Obama's foreign policy address 2. Looking through the right lens?: The President spoke very little of the three-year civil war in Syria, addressing it primarily as a counter-terrorism challenge. He referenced support for the moderate opposition, a nod to a plan to increase training for rebels now fighting both forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad and extremists linked to al Qaeda. But Obama made scant mention of efforts to strengthen the political opposition and glossed over the year-long effort to bring the regime and opposition to the table for peace talks that broke down months ago and now seem dead in the water. Libya and Iraq were also treated mostly as a counter-terrorism challenge. The U.S. helped rid Libya of Moammar Gadhafi, but the country is now in the throes of a political crisis that is driving the current violence, which requires sustained diplomatic engagement. The withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq has also seen a lessening of high-level diplomatic attention while sectarian violence is again on the rise. The reduction of the U.S. military footprint must be matched with a redoubling of U.S. diplomatic engagement, and such a vision was lacking in the President's speech by viewing these countries through a terrorism lens. -- Elise Labott, CNN Foreign Policy Reporter Five foreign policy headaches for Obama 3. What about Syria? Syria was going to be the headline today. I think what we got was this partnership fund with other nations that needs to be approved by Congress and we'll look for supporting the moderate opposition on the ground more. Even if that does substantially change the situation down the road, I think the way it comes across here falls a little flat, especially with some of the buildup we've seen leading into it. I think "defensive" is kind of the word here. I think some of what has tainted or dampened the stance that the administration has taken even in the briefing room day-to-day is that they have been pushed into a defensive stance. This was a sweeping speech that kind of covered everything and as well was a chance for the President to list what seemed like every accomplishment of his administration, but it kind of read like a defensive, lawyerly answer to the critics. We thought that's what the President didn't want to do. He did go there. He even mentioned some of the critiques that he's faced. He also had some key phrases like "tough talk generates headlines but war rarely conforms to that kind of mode" and "We may have the best hammer but every one of our problems is not a nail." -- Michelle Kosinski, CNN White House Correspondent  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/politics/us-afghanistan-troops/index.html	politics	Obama to cut troops, says Afghanistan 'will not be a perfect place' - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 11:45:42 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- With combat operations in Afghanistan ending this year, President Barack Obama announced he plans for almost 10,000 American troops to remain in the country in 2015 if the Afghan government signs a security agreement. "We will bring America's longest war to a responsible end," Obama said in the White House Rose Garden in detailing the strategy to have virtually all U.S. forces out of Afghanistan by the end of 2016 -- shortly before his presidency ends. The announcement offered something to proponents and opponents of a continued U.S. military engagement there after more than 12 years of war -- the longest in American history. Obama called for 9,800 U.S. troops to stay in Afghanistan after the end of 2014, along with some allied forces. The number would get cut roughly in half by the end of 2015, and a year later -- less than a month before Obama leaves the White House -- the U.S. military presence would scale down to what officials described as a "normal" embassy security contingent. A senior administration official told CNN that after 2016, the number of U.S. service members in Afghanistan providing embassy security and engaging in cooperative security efforts with the host government and military would likely number about 1,000. Currently, the United States has 32,000 troops there. Maintaining any forces beyond the end of 2014 -- when Washington and its NATO allies will formally halt combat operations -- depends on Afghanistan signing the security agreement rejected by outgoing President Hamid Karzai, Obama said Tuesday. Two candidates facing each other in next month's run-off election to choose Karzai's successor have indicated they will sign the security pact, Obama said. "It's time to turn the page on more than a decade in which so much of our foreign policy was focused on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq," he declared. Three conservative Republicans who generally oppose any reduction in the U.S. military's global posture criticized Obama's announcement as "a monumental mistake and a triumph of politics over strategy." "The President came into office wanting to end the wars he inherited. But wars do not end just because politicians say so," said a statement by Sens. John McCain of Arizona, Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Obama, however, said Americans have learned it was harder to end a war than to start one, adding that "we have to recognize Afghanistan will not be a perfect place, and it is not America's responsibility to make it one." The role of U.S. troops in Afghanistan after this year will be aimed at "disrupting threats caused by al Qaeda, supporting Afghan security forces and giving the Afghan people the opportunity to succeed as they stand on their own," he said. Tony Blinken, Obama's deputy national security adviser, told CNN that the United States will spend about $20 billion on the continued military presence in Afghanistan after 2014. Asked if such a cost was worth it, Blinken replied: "We want to complete the job that we started." At the same time, he said "we can't be in an endless war posture." In a call with journalists before Obama's announcement, senior administration officials said the intention was to show continued international support for Afghanistan as it transitions to its new elected government. The successful first round of voting showed Afghanistan forces now were capable of providing security, the officials said. The United States had as many as 100,000 forces in Afghanistan at one point. In all, more than 2,300 American troops have been killed in that war, launched in the weeks after the September 11, 2001, al Qaeda terror attacks on the United States. Obama's announcement came the day before he delivers a foreign policy speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. On Tuesday, he indicated the shift in resources permitted by ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan would allow increase counter-terrorism assets in Africa and elsewhere. Until now, Obama's administration has been reluctant to assign a number to American troop strength in Afghanistan once the combat mission ends. House Republican leaders reacted to Obama's announcement with encouragement for a continuing mission, but skepticism over the rigid time line. "I'm pleased the White House met the military's request for forces in Afghanistan. However, holding this mission to an arbitrary egg-timer doesn't make a lick of sense strategically," said Rep. Howard "Buck" McKeon, the California Republican who chairs the House Armed Services Committee. House Speaker John Boehner, who has pushed for reaching a bilateral security agreement with Afghanistan to keep U.S. troops there, said he welcomed the plans for a continuing mission. "It has been my long-standing position that input from our commanders about the conditions on the ground should dictate troop decisions, and not an arbitrary number from Washington," Boehner added in a statement. Boehner: Don't repeat Iraq mistakes in Afghanistan CNN's Jim Acosta and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/politics/gun-policy-recap/index.html	politics	Competing mental health bills set up partisan showdown - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 04:59:56 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- It is a tale of tragedy meets election year politics. As the nation reels from yet another deadly mass shooting, this time a gun spree in California which left seven dead, including the gunman, this weekend Congress is poised to consider two rival congressional proposals -- one from a clinical psychologist, the other from the victim of a deadly high shooting -- aimed at addressing the thorny issue of gun policy reform and mental health. One measure, sponsored by Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Pennsylvania, a clinical psychologist, seeks to get states to revise standards on committing the severely mentally ill deemed in need of treatment to hospitals. His bill, which has bipartisan support, also includes a controversial proposal that seeks to also empower families and judges to intervene on behalf of severely mentally ill adults and, in some cases, compel court-ordered therapy. Murphy's bill would also significantly dial back federal funding to the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, which spends more than $3 billion every year on mental health care. Murphy does not think the agency is effective. "The privacy laws (like the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) were to prevent mistreatment from health care ... not meant to keep people from being treated in health care," Murphy said on CNN's New Day on Wednesday adding that, in many of the recent mass shootings, the parents were aware of the gunman's mental health issues but were legally powerless. "People knew when something was going on. What about the rights of society? When someone says 'We don't want you forcing them into treatment,' look, I get that. But society is saying when the signs are there, that someone is gravely disabled or gravely ill from mental illness, a brain illness, treat them. Denial is not a treatment." A competing measure, authored by Rep. Ron Barber, D-Arizona, a politically vulnerable former aide to Rep. Gabrielle Giffords who was shot during the 2011 attack on the congresswoman, seeks to more broadly improve access for all to mental health help through additional federal financial assistance for counseling, research and education efforts. His measure has the seal of approval from a number of mental health organizations including the the National Association of School Psychologists, the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention and Mental Health America, among others. "We know that one of every four Americans will have a mental illness at least once in their lifetime. Investing in mental health services in our communities and early identification and prevention of mental illness will save both lives and money," Barber said in a statement on his Web page. The pending showdown over the two measures -- neither of which directly addresses the type of mass gun violence that ended lives in Santa Barbara, Newtown and so many other cities -- sets the stage for a partisan fight over overhauling the nation's mental health system. "It's not what's in their hands, it's what is in their mind and heart that we've got to deal with," Murphy said on "New Day." Young, angry and socially alienated  The debate will unfold as the nation digests the actions of Elliot Rodger, 22, a former Santa Barbara City College student who police say fatally stabbed three people and shot three others in that city before taking his own life, Friday. His parents had alerted authorities to their son's mental illness and signs, they say, pointed to the danger he might one day pose. And, as has happened after Columbine, Virginia Tech, Fort Hood, Tucson, Aurora, Newtown, Washington and other shootings in other places, the victims' families and neighbors plead for justice, for an end to gun violence, for a change in laws. "What, what has changed? Have we learned nothing? Where the hell is the leadership," a weeping Richard Martinez, whose son, Christopher, a University of California Santa Barbara college student who was shot by Rodger, told CNN. "My kid died because nobody responded to what happened at Sandy Hook." Father of shooting victim chastises politicians, demands new gun laws In what has become part of a familiar ritual following mass shootings in America, advocates call for action and politicos, especially those in Washington, project solemnity before retreating to their respective corners of the intractable gun debate. "Shame on us for allowing this to continue," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-California, who championed firearms reforms that failed in Congress following the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, that jolted the nation in December 2012. The White House wound up putting into force nearly two dozen executive actions after Newtown that included improved training for first responders and efforts that focused on federal mental health care assistance. Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Connecticut, and Sen. John Thune, R-South Dakota, also addressed the issue smack in the thick of a midterm election year with Congress out on recess and time running short before the November vote for lawmakers to act, even on easy stuff. Appearing on CBS' "Face the Nation" on Sunday, Blumenthal said the tragedy could prompt lawmakers to reconsider mental health issues as they apply to gun laws. Thune steered clear of a broader mention of reforms around guns. Tackling mental health and gun policy is a thorny issue, but one that needs to be addressed, Rep. Peter King, R-New York, told The Washington Post. "We've got to look at how we define mental illness, who is denied weapons and who is not, and focus the discussion," King, who has pushed for tougher firearms measures, told the paper. "We have to have this debate." But political experts say there's little visibility on the issue, even if the conversation centers on mental health, which has routinely presented itself in the roster of America's mass shootings. As details emerged over the weekend in California, Rodger's history of mental health issues apparently was no secret to his family. A family friend said he had seen therapists since childhood. Further influencing prospects for any action is where America stands. The public push for reforms is fickle and is largely influenced by moment-to-moment tragedy, said Cedric Alexander, the chief of police for DeKalb County, Georgia, a clinical psychologist and adviser to the pro-gun rights group Independent Firearm Owners Association. "Our attention span is so short we never focus on this complicated problem long enough to address the problem, let alone begin to fix it," Alexander said in a statement. Support for gun control has hit peaks and valleys since 1993. That's when the Brady Bill came about after the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan and established a federal background check program for gun purchases. According to a CNN/ORC International survey conducted in December, 49% of Americans said they supported stricter gun control laws, while 50% opposed them. That fell from the 55% who backed tougher measures a few weeks after the Newtown shootings. Short attention span Stymied federal legislative actions have sent advocates for stricter controls looking for new ways to have an impact. The gun control fights have now moved to the states where legislatures have weighed more than 1,000 proposals, according to an analysis by the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. The battle over gun policy: Old fight, new strategies  And according to data collected for CNN by the National Conference of State Legislatures, more than half of the nation's legislatures -- those dominated by Republicans -- weighed bills that would have nullified any federal ban on military style assault weapons and limits on large magazines. Republican-led Georgia this year approved a "guns everywhere bill" that allows residents with concealed carry permits to bring guns into houses of worship, school areas, government buildings, some bars and some areas of airports. Gun-control advocates have had some success as well. In Connecticut, lawmakers passed sweeping legislation that included a partial assault weapons ban and restrictions on magazines holding more than 10 rounds. Colorado's Democratic-controlled legislature also approved a tougher background check measure but not without political consequences for several lawmakers who were recalled because of their votes. Will states go where Congress hasn't on gun laws? Mental health measures A number of measures at the state level deal with mental health. In South Dakota, the GOP-controlled legislature passed a bill requiring that mental health records of "someone acquitted of a crime by reason of insanity" be sent to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. According to data from the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System, roughly 1% of gun permit applicants who failed to pass a background check over the past 14 years, or 10,180 people, were denied for reasons related to mental health. The White House is also pushing to fund gun violence prevention studies for the first time in roughly 20 years, an effort resisted by Republican critics who accuse the Obama administration of playing politics with taxpayer funds. Big debate, big money Millions of dollars have been poured into the fight by groups representing both sides of the debate. Last month, wealthy businessman and former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg pledged $50 million toward gun control efforts. The National Rifle Association, on the other hand, has spent enormous sums over the years to influence lawmakers. "For many years, the gun lobby has had an advantage both in terms of funding and a well-organized and committed grassroots, which it has used to hold back efforts to strengthen gun laws that are supported by the vast majority of Americans, including the vast majority of gun owners," Daniel Webster, director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research, told CNN last month. "For years, politicians felt that there was more to lose than to gain by supporting much-needed reforms to keep guns from dangerous people," Webster said. For the families of victims, Martinez is the most recent grieving parent calling for action. "These will continue until somebody does something," he said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/opinion/brazile-school-lunches/index.html	opinion	Opinion: GOP to first lady: Let them eat ... whatever - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 01:59:27 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Donna Brazile, a CNN contributor and a Democratic strategist, is vice chairwoman for voter registration and participation at the Democratic National Committee. She is a nationally syndicated columnist, an adjunct professor at Georgetown University and author of "Cooking With Grease: Stirring the Pots in America." She was manager for the Gore-Lieberman presidential campaign in 2000. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- It's been a long time. A very long time. But I cannot forget my first school lunch. Call it free or call it charity, but it was a good meal that provided me, and so many others, with sustenance that made our school days more delightful. Our meals honored the traditions of the time -- red beans and rice with smoked sausage, bread and perhaps dessert. And of course every Friday we had fish sticks, potato salad or French fries. We've come a long way since then. Today, most public school children get perfectly balanced meals. School chefs use food selected to provide maximum nutrition, food that will enhance a student's well-being and learning abilities. Their standards come from federal nutrition experts in the U.S. Department of Agriculture who survey what important foods are missing from children's diets. More than 90% of the nation's schools follow these criteria. Come September, guidelines for healthier snacks will be added. Still, for all our efforts, the White House reports that, because of a poor diet, one-third of our children are on the path to diabetes. Regulations implementing the nutritional guidelines must be legislated by Congress. As it considers the Agriculture Appropriations Bill, Congress -- especially House Republicans -- will have to decide if it represents the interests of our children or of special food lobbyists. For example, the Maryland-based School Nutrition Association has sought, and received, congressional support to grant a one-year waiver from the standards to schools that can demonstrate six months of financial loss. The group represents 55,000 school lunch workers and nutritionists. But The Washington Post quoted a health professional who said the group reflects its funders, who are mostly frozen food and agribusiness interests. Getting our children healthy lunches has had bipartisan origins. The healthy school lunch program was put forth during the George W. Bush years, and strengthened with the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act Michelle Obama saw successfully to adoption in 2010. Implementing USDA healthy lunch standards has met with some schools' resistance, according to the Government Accountability Office and the School Nutrition Association. But why? After all, a USDA study found only 0.15% of the schools surveyed said they were having difficulty complying with the healthy foods standards. And the same study found that upward of 90% of the schools involved are successfully meeting the guidelines. That finding confirms another study done in 2012 by the Kids' Safe and Healthful Foods Project, "a collaboration between The Pew Charitable Trusts and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation that provides nonpartisan analysis and evidence-based recommendations" on food standards. It found 94% of school districts were on board to meeting the healthy food guidelines. Jessica Donze Black, a nutritionist and director with Pew, told the press, "We are disappointed (with this waiver) that would weaken national nutrition standards for foods served in schools." Indeed, more than 100 child nutrition experts at national, state and local levels released a petition to Congress on May 19, requesting lawmakers fight, and end, the waiver to opt out of all the breakfast and lunch standards for schoolchildren. We are beginning to reverse childhood obesity; it has fallen among preschoolers. But childhood obesity doubled during the past 30 years. Our progress is tiny but encouraging. The proposed waiver appears to be an attempt to buy time so the frozen food industry and agribusinesses can worm their foods into the schools. The provision is opposed by hundreds of nonpartisan, nonprofit nutrition organizations and supported by just a handful of powerful junk food interests. Congress appears willing to gamble with our children's health at the same time Olivier De Schutter, a U.N. health expert, declares that "unhealthy diets are greater threat to health than tobacco." Ironically, De Schutter calls for global regulation of salty, sugary foods, just when some members of Congress seem ready to abandon our own standards. Providing our children with healthy food will reduce future health care costs. So why is this too being turned into a partisan dodge? Republicans in Congress have limited a pilot program that will test efficient ways to deliver foods during the summer only to children in rural low-income households. (This is not to be confused with the Summer Food Service Program, which will continue to deliver meals to urban and rural children alike.) The excuse given by a House Agriculture spokeswoman is that rural children are scattered over wider areas and so "have some unique challenges." As if urban children going hungry don't face "unique challenges." The House version of the Agriculture Appropriations Bill also seeks to add starchy, white potatoes to the list of "qualified vegetables" under the Women, Infants and Children, or WIC, supplemental feeding program for pregnant women and young children. This move comes after heavy lobbying by the white potato industry, which wants the prestige of qualifying for WIC and the marketing advantage that comes with it. Congress should say no to the special interests, stop turning the well-being of our children into a partisan tool and focus on our children's health and their future. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/opinion/gergen-veterans-obama-shinseki/index.html	opinion	Gergen: Obama, Shinseki stories on VA medical care don't add up - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 02:02:42 EDT 2014	But the bureaucracy at the VA, second only to the Pentagon in size, is notoriously sluggish. In 2010 -- four years ago! -- the deputy undersecretary of the VA wrote a nine-page memo saying that in order to cover up their continued delays, various parts of the VA system were engaged in "gaming strategies" -- in effect, lying. The General Accounting Office and VA inspector generals wrote reports saying the practice was widespread. One would have thought that would have set off alarm bells at both the VA and the White House. Where was the anger then? There were some internal investigations, but they never went anywhere and there was little apparent sense of urgency. Six months ago, CNN turned loose its own investigative reporters and aired stories about excessive waits in several facilities across the country. Again, the VA and the White House had little to say. Then a month ago, CNN (along with the Arizona Republic) broke the story from the Phoenix VA that managers there have allegedly been cooking their books to provide false assurances. Veterans awaiting care were dying. The administration seemed to brush the story aside and Shinseki refused repeated requests from CNN for an interview. Recent days have been a political nightmare for the VA. Hauled before Congress to testify, Shinseki testified that evidence suggested only "isolated incidents" in the system. That same day CNN was reporting that there were allegations of misdeeds in at least six centers across the country. The next day the VA itself said there were 10 centers under investigation. By this week, the official number had mushroomed to 26. And weeks after the fact, the VA has rescinded a bonus it gave earlier this year to the boss of that Phoenix operation. In the weeks ahead, the administration now says, investigators will come up with reports and maybe some folks will be forced out. We will see. In the meantime, veterans are still waiting to hear of decisive action to end their long delays in care. When troubles arise in which Americans are needlessly dying, citizens like to think of the president as the fireman-in-chief. He is there in the White House, his team ever vigilant, and at the first sign of danger, he leads his team into action. At his side is the Cabinet officer with responsibility. Sadly, that is not what happened here. For most Americans, the story of VA officials allegedly falsifying records of veterans' care is disgusting. Those old enough to remember will be reminded how the government falsified counts of body bags in Vietnam. But the real issue is whether as a country, we are keeping faith with our veterans -- whether, as Abraham Lincoln urged in his second inaugural, we are binding the wounds of those who fought. Surely, we owe them prompt and professional care -- no more excuses, no more delays, no more b.s. Follow @CNNOpinion on Twitter. Join us at Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/opinion/granderson-chicago-obama-library/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Chicago needs help, not Obama library - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 10:32:50 EDT 2014	Editor's note: LZ Granderson is a CNN contributor, a senior writer for ESPN and a lecturer at Northwestern University. He is a former Hechinger Institute fellow and his commentary has been recognized by the Online News Association, the National Association of Black Journalists, and the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association. Follow him on Twitter @locs_n_laughs. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- The entryways to some of the University of Chicago dorms near the corner of East 61st and South Cottage Grove resemble the doors of a prison. And if you look around, it's clear that instead of trying to keep trouble locked in, the 123-year-old private school is trying to keep trouble out. The university's stone wall near that intersection appears to have had graffiti scrubbed off. And the U. of C. chose to situate its Department of Safety & Security less than a block away. There are bright yellow signs on nearby telephone poles with the words "safe passage" on them. They arrived last year after a budget crunch caused Mayor Rahm Emmanuel to close 50 city schools, forcing displaced students to walk not only farther from home, but across warring gang territory -- some in this neighborhood -- to attend classes. These students, many of whom are black and Latino, are supposed to stay on the "safe passage" routes to avoid being accidentally shot by fighting gangs. As if bullets can read signs. Against this backdrop, the university is bidding for President Obama's presidential library, with a projected cost approaching half a billion dollars. (The deadline for bids is June 16; Honolulu, where Obama grew up, and New York are also expected to make pitches.) And this has presented Obama with a political -- and arguably moral -- bind that his former community-activist self might have taken on quite differently. Some context: Emmanuel, Obama's friend and former White House chief of staff, is despised by the black community in this town. And at least six shootings happened within blocks of Obama's Hyde Park home this past weekend alone, a situation crying out for solutions and funds to pay for them. Just to the west of East 61st and South Cottage Grove, the residents want the university to build a trauma center to help save the lives of the people living in the high crime/low income neighborhoods that surround it. Currently the university's renowned hospital is unable to treat adults injured in falls, car accidents and assaults, though it does operate a trauma center for children 16 and under. It had a trauma care unit in 1986 but closed it two years later because of annual losses of $2 million -- a combination of high volume, patients without insurance and insufficient public aid. This mattered, for example, to an 18-year-old youth activist by the name of Damian Turner, who in 2010 was caught in the crossfire of a drive-by shooting just four blocks from the school's hospital, but had to be driven 10 miles to be treated. He died en route. In 2013, Northwestern University studied gunshot wounds recorded by the Illinois State Trauma Registry from 1999 to 2009 and found that living more than five miles from a trauma center decreases chances of survival. Adults living on the city's predominantly black south side do not live within five miles of such a center. That's a problem. Opening a $700 million "hospital for the future" -- as the university did last year with its Center for Care and Discovery, focused on cancer, neuroscience and advanced surgery -- while telling neighbors a trauma center is too expensive to run, is also a problem. And it certainly doesn't help that Emmanuel, the man responsible for closing so many schools in this black neighborhood, is lobbying state officials to pony up $100 million for the library. No money to educate black children safely near their homes. Too expensive to run a trauma center to help black victims of shootings. But half a billion for a vanity project with the Obama name on it. With the location of the library set to be named sometime next year, it would appear the President has little choice but to avoid placing the library at the university lest he run the risk of, for one thing, making his My Brother's Keeper initiative look hollow. It's either that or try to force the university's hand -- no adult trauma center, no library. Hawaii is looking better and better, isn't it? This week a local organization, STOP, Southside Together Organizing for Power, is holding a series of peaceful protests on and around the university campus to oppose putting the library there and to raise attention for the need for a trauma center. Their demonstrations started with a sit-in on the construction site for a parking ramp near the school's new Discovery center. Video shows it ended with protesters being dragged off the premises by university police for trespassing, with some protesters injured in the process. "The University of Chicago upholds the right to peaceful and safe demonstrations, but cannot allow protests that jeopardize anyone's safety," a statement read, adding it has established locations for demonstrations. "No arrests were made, and no charges have been planned." And no resolution in the near future. "If the University of Chicago Medical Center cared about the safety of black kids, they would provide a trauma center, because right now in Chicago black kids are the leading population that are suffering from trauma," said demonstrator Veronica Morris-Moore, while holding an icepack on a wrist she said was injured in the skirmish. Next to her was 18-year-old Victoria Crider, whose leg was elevated on a desk, her ankle in an air cast. STOP's office is on East 61st, just a few blocks west of the school. "Barack Obama has made it a point in his administration to not only preserve the life of black people, but black men," Morris-Moore said. "And the university can play a part and they're just choosing not to." She said "there's a lot of burden" on Obama to push for a trauma center. "Clearly they're not listening to us. Clearly they're just going to keep pushing us around ... keep harming us until we go away. And we're not going away. But we are getting tired and we do need help from people the university will listen to. And they will listen to (Obama). So in some respect he does owe us some attention." When more than 40 people are being shot in a weekend -- some in and around that neighborhood -- as happened last month, a lot more than attention is needed. Which could make Obama's return to Chicago every bit as stressful and as political as any day in Washington. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/opinion/navarrette-julian-castro-hud-obama/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Why Julian Castro said yes to Obama - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 01:21:33 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Ruben Navarrette is a CNN contributor and a nationally syndicated columnist with the Washington Post Writers Group. Follow him on Twitter: @rubennavarrette. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  San Diego (CNN) -- Normally, when an elected official has to make difficult choices, balancing ambition with practical concerns, it boils down to a personal decision. But when the official is a political rock star who might just be the first member of his community to become president, the whole decision-making process plays out in public. Take the case of Julian Castro, the San Antonio mayor who has now thrown political observers a curveball by accepting an offer from President Obama to join the Cabinet as secretary of housing and urban development. Castro has been talked about before as a potential 2016 candidate for vice president. The idea of his moving to Washington, if he's confirmed at HUD, is sure to keep tongues wagging for the next couple years. It will also provide plenty of opportunity for unsolicited advice. It seems many people have an opinion on whether Castro has made a shrewd career move or derailed an otherwise promising political future. I've known Castro for about 12 years, and he's a friend. I want what's best for him. I'm just not sure this is it. Why should others care about this choice? Well, for starters, because you can't begin to understand America in the 21st century without an appreciation for the footprint being left by 52 million Hispanics -- a demographic estimated to account for 25% of the U.S. population by 2040. Two-thirds of that population is Mexican or Mexican-American, and Castro is the most prominent politician they have. If there was any doubt about that, it evaporated when Obama chose Castro to give the keynote address at the 2012 Democratic National Convention and launched him as a national political figure. People should also care because, in the short term, Castro's selection could energize Hispanic voters in time for the midterm elections and help efforts by Democrats to avoid losing more seats in the House or even to retain control of the Senate. It certainly puts Republicans -- who are already smarting from the beating they took from Hispanic voters in the 2012 election, and who have been trying to make amends -- in a tough spot. If they attack Castro during his confirmation hearing, they'll inflame Latinos who will then turn the GOP into a pinata during the midterms. Finally, people should care because so much of our politics has become boring and predictable, and this surprise selection -- and Castro's willingness to accept it -- is neither of those things. On CNN's "State of the Union with Candy Crowley," pundits speculated about why a big city mayor would come to Washington midway through the second term of an unpopular administration. The answer, they agreed, may have something to do with the assumption that it might be hard for a Democratic presidential nominee to tap a mayor for a running-mate position coveted by governors and senators. The thinking is that, if nothing else, moving into the federal arena makes Castro more attractive to Hillary Clinton or whoever the party's nominee in 2016 turns out to be. The 39-year-old would replace Shaun Donovan, who would move over to take the helm at the Office of Management and Budget. But why would Castro accept the nomination? HUD is small potatoes. There are four major Cabinet posts: Treasury, Defense, State and Justice. On the prestige meter, HUD is much further down the list. Along with the Labor Department, it is one of those outposts in the federal bureaucracy where the minorities almost always end up in charge. There is no barrier being broken; another San Antonio mayor, Henry Cisneros, in 1993 became the first Hispanic to be housing secretary. And Castro seems content in his hometown of San Antonio, a base from which he can fly around the country delivering high-paying speeches and where he's finishing a memoir which had been due out next year and which may now be released even sooner. He has never struck me as someone who is desperate to go to Washington. And yet, now Castro is ready to start packing. The more I think about it, the more I think I understand why he feels compelled to make this move at this point in his political career. For one thing, Castro knows the subject matter. Big-city mayors deal with housing and urban development, along with economic renewal, on a regular basis. He'll be comfortable at HUD. And it doesn't hurt that, if Castro needs guidance, he can turn to Cisneros, a friend and mentor who knows the department very well, since he ran it for four years during the Clinton administration. For another, Castro's political options in Texas -- a dependably red state -- are limited. He could run for re-election as mayor next year, and serve out what would be his final term until 2017. Then what? He could enter the private sector, and make a comfortable living practicing law, giving speeches, and writing books. But his political career would be over, just like those of many Texas Democrats before him. His decision to join the Cabinet is a wild card, but one that might just keep him in the game. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/opinion/gingrich-jones-prison-system-fails-america/index.html	opinion	Newt Gingrich and Van Jones: Prison system is failing America - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 07:58:10 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Newt Gingrich and Van Jones are co-hosts of CNN's "Crossfire," which airs at 6:30 p.m. ET weekdays. A former speaker of the House, Gingrich was a candidate in the 2012 Republican presidential primaries. Jones is president and founder of Rebuild the Dream, an online platform focusing on policy, economics and media. He was President Barack Obama's green jobs adviser in 2009. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the authors. (CNN) -- The numbers are arresting. If Americans under correctional supervision counted as a city of their own, they would form the largest city in the United States after New York. The number of people in prison, on parole or on probation, 6.9 million Americans, exceeds the populations of the second- and third-largest cities, Los Angeles and Chicago, combined. Or the size of the next four -- Houston, Philadelphia, Phoenix and San Antonio -- put together. Thirty-eight U.S. states are home to fewer people than live under the corrections system in this country. There are about as many people behind bars as live in Chicago. That's one in every 108  Americans. One in 35 are under some form of correctional supervision. Among African Americans, the numbers are even more horrifying. According to the NAACP, one in three black males born in the United States today is likely to spend time in prison at some point in his life. That's compared with one in six Hispanic males or one in 25 white males. It would be hard to overstate the scale of this tragedy. For a nation that loves freedom and cherishes our rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, the situation should be intolerable. It is destroying lives and communities. Our corrections system is not correcting. Within three years of being released from prison, nearly half of prisoners are convicted of another crime with one out of every four ending up back in prison. When a typical bureaucracy does its job this badly, it wastes money, time and paper. The corrections bureaucracy, in failing to correct the large majority of inmates in its charge, not only wastes money but also wastes lives, families and entire cities. The current system is broken beyond repair. It's a human, social and financial disaster. We need a radical strategy of replacement of these huge bureaucracies that lack any meaningful oversight. A number of states, most recently Mississippi, have already begun to take important first steps by directing nonviolent offenders to community supervision and other forms of correction. These measures keep violent offenders off the streets and lesser offenders out of prison, where too often the only education they receive is how to become a more hardened criminal. In Hawaii, Judge Steven Alm has pioneered a model of probation enforcement that has dramatically reduced violations through consequences that are immediate, predictable and proportionate. New York City created a social impact bond to finance prisoner rehabilitation programs run by a nonprofit organization. They will pay out to investors based on savings from a decline in recidivism. There are no doubt countless similar reforms that would reduce rates of incarceration, and we should pursue them. But it is also time for more fundamental changes. We need to rethink prisons, parole and probation for the 21st century. At a time when high-quality education is increasingly digital and in many cases free, shouldn't we provide opportunities for prisoners to learn skills that will enable them to support themselves as upstanding citizens when they are released? We know that inmates who earn a GED while incarcerated are substantially less likely to return to prison. There are readily available online tools that our prisons could use extensively for a minimal cost to increase the number of inmates receiving valuable education and skills training. Khan Academy has replicated virtually the entire K-12 curriculum online for free. Udacity and other online education sites offer introductions to software programming for free. Our prisons should be using tools such as these extensively. They offer the opportunity to interrupt the cycle of poverty, a failing education system, crime and incarceration. At most prisons, however, inmates would never be allowed to spend eight hours a day working on educational courses and are instead forced to mill about their cells with little or nothing to occupy their time. Of course, there are significant barriers for convicted felons to get jobs even with education programs. But without some training, it's almost impossible for many. And with tight budgets and increasing prison populations, states have already been cutting back on the rehabilitation component. Technology should revolutionize more than just the prisons' rehabilitation programs. It should completely transform the corrections and criminal justice systems. Van is involved in a computer science education initiative for urban youth called #YesWeCode, which in February held a "hackathon" with students in Oakland, California. One of the hacks the kids came up with was an app to remind them of their court dates. It's sad, but in an age when the dentist's office calls automatically to remind us of appointments, shouldn't the court system do that as well if it prevents kids from spending time in jail? Similarly, technology should enable much more effective probation and community supervision, especially new options that could allow nonviolent offenders to remain with their families living productive lives under an appropriate level of restriction. Almost any activity to which we might sentence low-level offenders --apprenticeship programs, school, literacy or computer science boot camps, community service -- would be a better use of taxpayer dollars than sticking them idle in prison with hardened criminals. Unfortunately, the current corrections bureaucracy has embraced none of this innovation -- in part because it is captive to the prison guards' unions or the private prison lobby, and in part because it lacks any incentives or sufficient competition based on the right metrics. The incarceration industry has grown into a billion dollar industry, with corrections being among the most expensive budget items in many states, increasingly outpacing what they spend on higher education. Opinion: Justice system is failing young black men Years ago, Van proposed that states give wardens a financial incentive to cut the rates of recidivism for inmates leaving their prisons. More than 65% of inmates in California return to prison within three years of their release, where they will again cost taxpayers an average of $47,000 each year. Surely it is worth giving wardens a substantial portion of the savings for every inmate that leaves their prison and does not re-offend. Such incentives would spark dramatically more innovation and investment in rehabilitation, job training and job placement programs for prisoners. That would be a revolutionary change from prison administrators' current incentives, which are often to keep as many people in custody as possible. Finally, we need real market competition that rewards success at every step of the process -- in probation and parole offices as well as prisons. That doesn't just mean privatizing prisons or rewarding probation services with the same failed metrics. We need competition of methods and ideas based on the right criteria: When we send prisoners home, do they have the skills to reintegrate in their communities as working, law-abiding citizens? Or do they end up coming back? With more than 2 million of our fellow citizens in prison and millions more in danger of returning, Americans on both the left and the right should be able to agree on the need to replace our broken corrections system and work together to do so. Through Rebuild the Dream's #Cut50 initiative, at CNN's "Crossfire" and elsewhere, we will be working together to explore ways to reduce the prison population substantially in the next decade. We should start by opening our prisons and probation offices to innovation to save money, achieve better outcomes for individuals and ensure better safety for us all. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/14/opinion/costello-pro-life-pro-death-penalty/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Can you be pro-life and pro-death penalty? - CNN.com	2014/05/14	Wednesday May 14 07:56:46 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Can you be pro-life and pro-death penalty? It's a question more than one person I know is asking after Oklahoma's botched execution of Clayton Lockett. Not necessarily because of the way Oklahoma tortuously executed the convicted killer, but because of the hard-core way some reacted to Lockett's execution. Like Mike Christian. The pro-life Oklahoma state representative told The Associated Press, "I realize this may sound harsh, but as a father and former lawman, I really don't care if it's by lethal injection, by the electric chair, firing squad, hanging, the guillotine or being fed to the lions." He also threatened to impeach judges who dared delay executions for any reason. This is from a man who is so strongly pro-life he voted for eight bills in four years to prevent women in Oklahoma from terminating their pregnancies, or, as many who oppose abortion say, "killing babies." Color me confused. So, Rep. Christian says it's OK to kill, unless you're a woman who wants to end her pregnancy? As I told my friends during a heated debate last weekend, that smacks of hypocrisy. The only nonhypocritical viewpoint, I argued, exists in the Catholic Church. Catholics believe in the "Consistent Ethic of Life." As Georgetown's Father Thomas Reese puts it, "we are concerned about a person from womb to tomb." "Life is something that comes from God and shouldn't be taken away by man," Reese told me. Put simply, the Catholic Church opposes abortion and the death penalty. Period. Except nothing in life is that simple. Especially our collective views on the death penalty and abortion. If you ask a Southern Baptist, he or she will likely tell you the Catholic Church is wrong. "There is no contradiction here," R. Albert Mohler, president of The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, told me, referring to Rep. Christian's underlying position. Christian's words were "careless," and don't "reflect any Biblical ... defense of the death penalty," he says, but it does not defy logic if Christian is pro-life and pro-death penalty. "It's not an eye-for-an-eye kind of thing," explained Mohler. "Retribution is not the same as a demand for justice. In Genesis 9, God speaks to Noah after the flood. When someone takes human life, they forfeit their own life." So, I asked, "Should a woman who's had an abortion forfeit her own life?" Mohler emphatically answered, "no." Lockett deserved to die, he said, because the act of murder "was taken in wanton disregard of the life taken and given the nature of the crime, this individual has forfeited his right to live." (Lockett not only raped and shot his victim, but ordered his accomplice to bury her alive.) Don't get me wrong; pro-lifers could argue that pro-choice, anti-death penalty believers are inconsistent, too. How can you choose to end life, but adamantly oppose the death penalty? Apparently, consistency is not America's strong suit. According to a 2010 study, only about 8% of Americans oppose abortion and the death penalty under all circumstances. James Unnever, professor of criminology at the University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee, co-authored the study. He expected his test results to show a consistent belief system in all kinds of premeditated death. In other words, if you believe in the sanctity of life, you would be opposed to euthanasia, the death penalty and abortion. Turned out, that was not remotely true. "From a religious position, the Catholic faith is the most consistent life ethic," Unnever says. "Religion is only one factor that affects using the death penalty." The other factor, he says, is politics. "When you get people who are against abortion and for the death penalty, that's not as much a religious effect as a politics effect. Politics trumps any religion." Jacinta Gau, professor of criminal justice at the University of Central Florida, co-authored two studies on attitudes about abortion and capital punishment. She was also surprised by the inconsistency many showed toward life issues. Of those who strongly oppose abortion, yet strongly approve of the death penalty, Gau says: "What seems to link those two attitudes together is related to fundamentalism, a literal interpretation of the Bible, and an inflexible way of viewing society in general," Gau says. "I'm not sure they really view it as a contradiction. There's a punitive attitude toward this -- kind of like if you don't want a child, don't engage in risky sexual behavior; if you kill someone, you deserve death." And Gau says pro-choice, anti-death penalty believers also don't see a contradiction. Those who are pro-choice don't "see abortion as ending a life," she says. "The death penalty becomes completely separate for the pro-choice people, because it's about a woman's right to choose." Truth told, the "Consistent Ethic of Life," is relatively new to the Catholic Church. For centuries, the church supported capital punishment. But passionate pro-life and death penalty foes, such as Sister Helen Prejean, convinced the church that "helping to kill a defenseless person" in any circumstance is wrong. "What's more innocent than an unborn baby?" Prejean told me. "It's easy to be against that." Then Prejean went for the jugular. The people who commit terrible crimes, "Could you kill them? If there's a part of you who can't say yes to that, then you can't say yes to the death penalty." I must admit I was humbled by Prejean's question. Couple that with the fact we can now lock up violent criminals for life and I, again, find myself arguing for the "Consistent Ethic of Life." As for Mohler, the Southern Baptist leader, he offered me this final thought: "If I had the opportunity to trade the death penalty for the affirmation of protection of the life of the unborn, I'd take it in a second." Let the debate rage on. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/30/opinion/omara-death-penalty/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Execution, a 19th-century relic we still can't get right - CNN.com	2014/04/30	Wednesday Apr 30 01:56:58 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Mark O'Mara is a CNN legal analyst. He is a criminal defense attorney who frequently writes and speaks about issues related to race, guns and self-defense in the context of the American criminal justice system. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- If anyone deserved the death penalty, it was Clayton Lockett. He committed a series of vile acts that we as a civilization would condemn under any circumstances. In August 2000, a jury in Oklahoma found Lockett guilty of first-degree murder, rape, forcible oral sodomy, kidnapping and a bevy of other charges -- 19 in all. They stemmed from a robbery-gone-wrong in which victims were tied up at gunpoint; one young woman was raped multiple times, and another, who had just graduated from high school, was shot and buried alive in a ditch. On Tuesday night, Lockett was scheduled to die by lethal injection -- the preferred means for executing criminals in states that allow for the death penalty. During lethal injections, subjects are given a chemical cocktail designed to put them to sleep, render paralysis and then stop the heart. One problem for death-penalty states, such as my state of Florida, is the chemicals used for lethal injection are hard to come by, partly because some companies who produce the chemicals refuse to sell them for the purposes of executions. So in the case of Lockett, the state of Oklahoma tested a new combination of chemicals. Instead of putting Lockett to sleep and stopping his heart, the administration of the lethal injection caused his vein to burst, and about 45 minutes later, he died of a heart attack. It's been dubbed a "botched execution," and Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin stayed another execution scheduled for Tuesday evening pending an investigation. This is an absurd problem for states to wrestle with -- this notion of how to kill someone properly. Like I said, if anyone deserved the death penalty, it was Lockett, but the real debate is whether we need to be in the business of trying to find the least cruel and least unusual way to kill anyone voluntarily. It seems clear that the death penalty is a 19th-century relic, and our ridiculous struggle to figure out how to do it properly in the 21st century is a signal that perhaps we should join the rest of the civilized Western world in abolishing executions. Even Russia hasn't had an execution since 1999, and I wouldn't exactly call Vladimir Putin soft on crime. But please understand that I am not some left-wing, dyed-in-the-wool liberal who simply believes all criminal behavior is the fault of a system that fosters deviance. Not at all. I believe that if you take somebody's life with premeditation, and if a jury, after hearing all of the evidence properly presented by competent counsel, finds you guilty, then you should die -- but in prison, at the end of a life sentence. My objection to the death penalty is pragmatic. It's ineffective as a deterrent, and it is an extraordinary burden on our justice system. For a punishment to offer an effective deterrence, it has to be applied swiftly to maintain the logical cause and effect relationship with the crime, that this is a consequence. But we simply cannot, and should not, act quickly. The extended period required to ensure that the death penalty is appropriate -- that all options and appeals have been exhausted before resorting to the ultimate punishment -- is an essential safeguard in a civilized society. In Lockett's case, this process took nearly 14 years. Even with this long process of appeals, our system is far from perfect. Innocence projects around the country have saved 144 death-row inmates since 1973 by presenting new evidence that has proven them not guilty. Think of how many innocent people we have executed, when the number should be zero. We should all be shocked and appalled. Since we know innocent people sometimes get convicted based upon bad identification, faulty witnesses, improper police activities and incompetent counsel, can't we at least agree to avoid killing somebody when we know we have an imperfect system? And the burden of the appeals process on the criminal justice system is huge. A recent report from Amnesty International shows the average cost to carry a death penalty case from prosecution to execution is three to 10 times more than a case with a life sentence. Very often, a life sentence costs the state less than $1 million. Some death penalty cases have cost more than $10 million. The excruciatingly long, and necessary, appeals process in death penalty cases cost taxpayers millions for each case, and it draws resources away from other important prosecutions. Is it worth the price? It would be worth the price, if that was what it took to get justice. But is the death penalty justice? Or is it retribution? Often in a death penalty case, members of the victim's family are the strongest advocates for a death sentence. They say they want justice for their slain loved one, but what they often truly want is retribution. This is both understandable and acceptable. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. But it's never that simple. I've tried death penalty cases, and I've been lucky: None of my clients has ever been sent to death row. But I know many good lawyers who haven't been so lucky. You may be surprised to know that in many death penalty cases, which last for years, defense lawyers get to know victims' families. The families of homicide victims, after an execution, often don't feel the long sought-after sense of relief they expected. Often, they are left, instead, with unresolved emptiness. Two lives are lost when a murder is committed, and two families are irrevocably altered. We should feel the pain as well, and spend more time, effort and money on those who are affected. We should not spend ever-dwindling resources figuring out ways to kill. The death penalty is flawed in every conceivable way, and it should be abolished.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/24/opinion/navarrette-affirmative-action/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Why a minority opposes affirmative action - CNN.com	2014/04/24	Thursday Apr 24 02:33:36 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Ruben Navarrette is a CNN contributor and a nationally syndicated columnist with the Washington Post Writers Group. Follow him on Twitter: @rubennavarrette. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- When it comes to thinking about affirmative action, there's an old way and a new way. The old way was in full bloom this week at the Supreme Court, in a blistering 58-page dissenting opinion by Justice Sonia Sotomayor in what was a state's rights case involving a 2006 Michigan law banning the use of racial criteria in publicly funded college and university admissions, and the question of whether these matters can be settled not just by courts but also by voters. The new way is on display in California, where lawmakers who want to amend the state constitution to reinstate racial and ethnic preferences at public colleges and universities -- something that was banned by a 1996 ballot initiative -- have a formidable opponent in the form of a group that knows a little something about discrimination: Asian-Americans. Under the old way of thinking, the narrative goes like this: There was once in this country ugly, overt and systematic discrimination based on race or ethnicity. African-Americans in the South and Mexican-Americans in the Southwest were excluded not just from barbershops, country clubs and public swimming pools, but also from places that could change the destinies of individuals and uplift families -- colleges and universities. There had to be a corrective device, the thinking went, by which these institutions that had previously treated race and ethnicity of certain groups as a negative could flip the script and treat it as a positive. Some people saw it as a reparation, a historical payoff. But it was more of an acknowledgment that discrimination leaves behind vestiges, and institutions that once went out of their way to be unwelcoming to certain groups now had to go out of their way to be welcoming to those groups by taking applicants' race and ethnicity into account. This is how Sotomayor, a graduate of Princeton University and Yale Law School, sees the program that she has often credited for opening those doors. In her dissent in the Michigan case, part of which she read aloud to her colleagues, the nation's first Latina Supreme Court justice wrote: "This refusal to accept the stark reality that race matters is regrettable. The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to speak openly and candidly on the subject of race, and to apply the Constitution with eyes open to the unfortunate effects of centuries of racial discrimination. As members of the judiciary tasked with intervening to carry out the guarantee of equal protection, we ought not sit back and wish away, rather than confront, the racial inequality that exists in our society." Anyone out there support racial inequality and think it ought to be preserved? I didn't think so. Besides, this case wasn't about whether racial and ethnic preferences are good or bad, but whether their use could be restricted by voters at the state level. By a vote of 6-to-2, the high court ruled that it could be. Meanwhile, in California, there is a group that -- like Sotomayor -- really dislikes racial inequality. So much so that they don't think it ought to be reinstated by the state legislature under the pretext of expanding educational opportunity. In Alabama or Georgia or Mississippi, the dominant racial storyline is black-and-white. But in California, the most interesting relationship -- the one that will help define the future of the nation's most populous state -- is the relationship between Latinos and Asian-Americans. At 38% of the population, Latinos now make up a plurality in California. Yet the fastest-growing minority in the state is Asian-Americans, who now make up nearly 14% of California, or more than twice the number of African-Americans. And just as Latinos are divided on issues such as immigration and bilingual education, so, too, are there differences of opinion among Asian-Americans when the conversation turns to affirmative action. Still, what sends shock waves through the debate in California is that one of the most prominent subsets -- Chinese-Americans -- is opposed to the idea of colleges and universities taking into account race and ethnicity. Organizations representing that constituency pressured a small group of Asian-American lawmakers to stall the legislation. They did. You might think that an ethnic group that holds nearly 40% of seats in the University of California system would have little to complain about. You'd be wrong. Asian-American organizations that oppose racial and ethnic preferences claim that the 40% figure could soar to 50% or 60% if colleges and universities awarded slots based on merit. They insist that there is a quota to keep the Asian-American students below 50%, and that this primarily benefits white students who might not be able to compete head-to-head with Asian-Americans. Welcome to affirmative action, California-style, where things get complicated. As the debate plays out in this state, you don't hear much about "reparations" or the "vestiges of discrimination." The dominant themes are "merit" and "fairness." Those are not small things. Let's put to rest the old way of thinking about affirmative action and confront the new challenges that lie ahead in a country that, with every passing day, resembles less and less what it used to be. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/24/opinion/summers-georgia-gun-law/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Gun law packs dangers, police chief says - CNN.com	2014/04/24	Thursday Apr 24 11:48:15 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Warren Summers, the chief of police in Norcross, Georgia, has been a police officer since 1976. He has also worked as an assistant district attorney. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- On Wednesday, Gov. Nathan Deal signed Georgia's Safe Carry Protection Act into law. Many gun proponents love House Bill 60, but it will create unintended problems for law enforcement, local governments and the citizens they serve. Although changes in the state's gun laws were meant to strike a balance between the rights of gun owners and the government's interest in protecting its citizens, unintended consequences may follow that don't make anybody safe. Picture this: It's a pleasant summer day. The kids are out of school, and you've decided to take them to the local park. You're sitting on a park bench in the shade, watching them play, when you suddenly notice a man dressed in a heavy winter coat approaching the playground. As he scurries past you, you notice a handgun strapped around his waistband. Alarmed? You should be. Who is this man, and why is he armed at your children's playground? Concerned enough to call the local police? Not a bad idea, but here is the problem. Starting July 1, law enforcement in Georgia will not be able do much for you. As a matter of fact, they could get sued if they detain the man you called about and ask him whether he has a valid weapons carry license. That's because, under Georgia's revised Safe Carry Protection Act, it is prohibited for police to detain someone for the purpose of checking for a license. So much for safe. But wait, it gets better. Worried about convicted felons toting guns? Rest assured, convicted felons are still prohibited from possessing firearms in Georgia -- except in the act of self-defense. But, you might ask, don't you have to possess a firearm first in order to be able to use it in self-defense? Correct. So, what kind of sense does that make? It doesn't. It encourages gun ownership and use by convicted felons. Think about it. All they have to do now is claim "self-defense." Feeling safer already? Finally, Georgia's revised Safe Carry Protection Act may also cost you more money. Before this law, cities could simply prohibit firearms or any other weapons in government buildings by posting a sign; now, they can do so only by screening entrances into the government building with security personnel. And guess who ends up paying for that? That's right, the taxpayer. And if the police officer is sued for asking to see a gun carry permit, who will pay for his or her defense? It will be up to the municipality, using taxpayer funds. But not only does it cost us more, it also has a chilling effect on open government. Many citizens might feel discouraged from visiting their local government offices, knowing that they are now subject to being screened. While these revisions certainly favor the rights of gun owners, they create dilemmas for local law enforcement and government. As a police chief, my main concern is the safety our residents. As police, we have taken an oath to protect and serve, and this new law doesn't help us.  Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/29/opinion/gorod-cell-phone-scalia-court/index.html	opinion	Opinion: What Scalia knows about illegal searches - CNN.com	2014/04/29	Tuesday Apr 29 12:24:29 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Brianne Gorod is appellate counsel at the Constitutional Accountability Center, a progressive law firm and think tank. Gorod is a former law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer and was an attorney-adviser in the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel. She is one of the authors of her firm's amicus brief in Riley v. California and United States v. Wurie, two cell phone privacy cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- It won't surprise anyone that Justice Antonin Scalia wrote a scathing dissent in a Supreme Court case that came down last week. But it might surprise some people that three members of the court's so-called liberal wing joined him. Scalia argued that searching the car of Prado Navarette, pulled over on suspicion of drunken driving, violated the Fourth Amendment's protections against unreasonable searches and seizures. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor agreed. This seemingly idiosyncratic lineup is a developing bloc in Fourth Amendment cases, and it's one to keep any eye on as the court hears two even bigger such cases Tuesday. In Riley v. California and United States v. Wurie, the court will consider whether the police may search the contents of an arrestee's cell phone without a warrant. This means that if you get arrested for jaywalking or littering (and in some places, you can be), the police can search your smartphone -- and everything on it. There should be little doubt about what Scalia will say about these searches. He has become a regular champion of the Fourth Amendments protections against "unreasonable searches and seizures." In Navarette v. California, Scalia disagreed with the court's conclusion that the police could lawfully stop a car after a woman anonymously called 911 and reported that the car had driven her off the road. Scalia wrote that such stops were not the constitutional framers' concept of a "people secure from unreasonable searches and seizures." And in Maryland v. King, a case decided last term, Scalia disagreed with the court's conclusion that the police may lawfully take a cheek swab of someone's DNA after he or she has been arrested for a serious offense. He expressed "doubt that the proud men who wrote the charter of our liberties would have been so eager to open their mouths for royal inspection." Those proud men adopted the Fourth Amendment in large part to respond to the British use of "general warrants." These warrants were not specific about the people or items to be searched and thus gave the government broad discretion to search people's homes and the personal papers and effects within. The Fourth Amendment was adopted to ensure the American people would not be subject to such broad searches. As Scalia put it simply in the King case, "suspicionless searches are never allowed if their principal end is ordinary crime-solving." That's precisely why the police should not be able to search the modern-day equivalent of one's "papers and effects" -- the contents of one's cell phone -- without a warrant. Fortunately, there's reason to think that Scalia won't be on the losing side of this one. To start, searches of cell phones have the potential to be far more invasive than the searches in Navarette and King. In Navarette, the search was a brief traffic stop. Even the search in King -- a light swabbing of the cheek -- while more physically invasive, does not reveal all of a person's most private communications and the intimate details of one's life the way searches of a smart phone can. Consider all the information on your smartphone -- not only e-mails and texts and call logs, but also apps that reveal a tremendous amount about you. Moreover, King involved a booking procedure when an individual was taken into custody for a serious offense. Indeed, the court went to great lengths to emphasize that the search would only be imposed on individuals charged with serious crimes. Not so the searches at issue in Riley and Wurie, which could take place after any arrest. Further, unlike in Navarette and King, robust enforcement of the Fourth Amendment in these cases will not hamper law enforcement. In Navarette, a ruling against the government would have meant the police could not stop the car; in King, they could not have taken the cheek swab. Here, the police can still seize the cell phone at the time of arrest and, assuming there is probable cause, they can subsequently obtain a warrant to search the phone. Finally, the last time the court confronted a case involving a similar Fourth Amendment question -- another search following a lawful arrest -- Scalia was on the winning side: Justice Clarence Thomas also concluded that the search was unreasonable, and Justice Stephen Breyer suggested he might have if the Supreme Court had not already addressed the exact question at issue in that case. The court hasn't before confronted the question at issue in Riley and Wurie -- cell phone searches. But even though the question is new, it's one for which history provides an answer. The framers didn't want the government to rifle through people's most personal papers and effects in the absence of individualized suspicion that they might provide evidence of wrongdoing. As Scalia will surely recognize, and as all of his other colleagues should as well. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/14/opinion/levin-jewish-center-shootings/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Hate-filled violence threatens us all - CNN.com	2014/04/14	Monday Apr 14 01:11:37 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Mark H. Levin is the pulpit rabbi at Congregation Beth Torah in Overland Park, Kansas. He has lived in the greater Kansas City area since 1976. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- As Jews prepare for Passover, our community has been hauled into the violence that plagues our nation. At this moment, we don't know for certain whether the killings Sunday at two Jewish Centers in Overland Park, Kansas, were aimed exclusively at Jews, but it certainly feels that way. In a larger sense, we have been victimized by the random, hate-filled violence that steals lives and futures in this country daily. Perhaps it is no coincidence that this hateful attack occurs at Passover. It surely threatens Jews' sense of security and multiplies the fear that we are persecuted. I wish, however, that you could know of the loving calls I am receiving from friends and clergy all over the wider metropolitan area and indeed around the world. Our neighbors: Jews, Christians and Muslims are outraged that senseless murder would be aimed at our community. We live among friends, and that is very different from Pharaoh's Egypt, Nazi Germany or any other place in which Jews have suffered persecution. We are being singled out, but in a larger sense we are not, because this is no longer a unique act of terror. Rather, the scourge of violence in America threatens us all. Those who hate as a way of life must be rooted out, isolated and punished. As Jews, we are no strangers to violence or wanton hatred. Many of us grew up with the fear of persecution. But we are not alone, either in our suffering or in our fears. Our newspapers report daily murderous acts against one group or another: blacks, gays, children, Muslims, minorities of all sorts. Many of the perpetrators are not sane; many of the victims are unsuspecting. The more proximate we are to the event, as the Jews of Overland Park were on Sunday, the more vulnerable and violated we feel. But look at the reality. At least two of those killed were not the apparent intended targets: Jewish people. They attended a nearby Methodist church. They were, tragically, in the line of fire because they had come to the Jewish Center to be part of an event, further evidence that this nation does not single us out as a hated minority but accepts us as beloved members of society and friends. Rather, our fear and our concern should be directed at a society that will not spend the resources to provide care for the mentally ill, will not limit the means by which violence is perpetrated and does not share common social purpose sufficient to protect us all from these random killings. For that, we are all guilty. We need to search our souls to ask why we, as a society, allow these daily murders to continue. On Sunday, Jews were apparently singled out. Tomorrow, it could well be another group, and Overland Park will recede in memory. But the truth is that we are all bound by our human experience and the tragic violence that is overwhelming the United States, ending lives and destroying families. Our prayers are with the victims and their families. They must be our main concern, as well as those who feel threatened by random violence. Sunday demonstrated that any of us could be singled out, and therefore we see we are one people that must be united in our conviction that we will not tolerate the hatred that murders innocent people and tears at the body of our nation. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/justice/indianapolis-colts-owner-charged/index.html	crime	Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay charged with impaired driving - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 04:50:12 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay was charged with operating a vehicle while intoxicated and possession of a controlled substance on Friday, just over two months after his arrest, a prosecutor said. The misdemeanor charges filed Friday are pending in Hamilton County, Indiana, Superior Court, Prosecuting Attorney D. Lee Buckingham's office said in a press release. The drug was identified in a court filing as oxycodone and/or hydrocordone. Irsay's initial hearing on both counts is scheduled for June 19. The Colts owner and CEO's legal team, in a statement after the charges were announced, thanked the Hamilton County prosecutor's office "for its professionalism in its investigation." The statement pointed out that authorities determined that "the facts in this matter did not warrant the filing of felony charges relative to Mr. Irsay's prescription medications. "Mr. Irsay will deal with the remaining misdemeanor charges through the judicial process," the statement added. Police in Carmel had earlier said that Irsay was stopped at 11:41 p.m. on March 16 for driving slowly, stopping in a roadway and failing to use his turn signal. The probable cause affidavit indicates that the Colts owner's speech was "slow and slurred," his eyes were "red and glassy" and his balance was "very unsteady." He failed a number of field sobriety tests, had trouble reciting the alphabet and told an officer "that he was having a hard time finding his house." In addition, a search of his vehicle found prescription drugs in bottles, police said in a press release. The drugs were not associated with any prescription bottles in the vehicle, according to police. The next day, Irsay "voluntary checked into a highly respected health care facility," according to the Colts. "(He) is committed committed to undergoing the treatment and care necessary to help him meet his challenges head-on," added the team. Irsay is the first National Football League owner to face criminal charges since Eddie DeBartolo of the San Francisco 49ers was indicted on federal racketeering charges in 1997. In that time, the league -- including its current commissioner, Roger Goodell -- have frequently punished players for off-the-field indiscretions that landed them in court. It remains to be seen what will happen, then, to the 54-year-old Irsay, who has largely stayed out of the public spotlight -- except for regular tweets -- since his arrest. In a brief statement Friday, the league said, "The NFL's Personal Conduct Policy applies to all league personnel and holds all of us accountable. We are reviewing the matter and will take appropriate action in accordance with the policy. The Colts owner -- whose father, Robert Irsay, owned the team before him -- has spoken publicly about his struggles with substance abuse as well as his efforts to stay sober. In a tweet last December, Jim Irsay said that he didn't drink: "(S)orry to ruin your theories ... but I don't drink ... at all," he posted on his official account. Report: Irsay's behavior was alarming Twitter reacts  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/showbiz/fox-anchor-gregg-jarrett-arrested/index.html	entertainment	Fox News anchor Gregg Jarrett jailed after airport incident - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 12:20:07 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Fox News anchor Gregg Jarrett spent a dozen hours in jail after being arrested on charges of interfering with a police officer at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, officials said. Jarrett, 59, was "belligerent and uncooperative" with police officers who responded to a report Wednesday that he was drunk at an airport bar, according to airport spokesman Patrick Hogan. "He is dealing with serious personal issues at this time," a Fox News spokeswoman said in an e-mail to CNN on Thursday. Jarrett was released from the Hennepin County Jail on a $300 bond early Thursday, according to jail records found online. He has a June 6 court date on a misdemeanor charge of obstruction of the legal process and interfering with a peace officer, the record said. TVNewser, a website that covers the television news industry, reported on May 12 that Jarrett was taking time off from his weekend anchor duties on Fox, quoting the network as saying he had "requested time off for personal reasons and Fox obliged." Jarrett joined Fox News 12 years ago and has most recently co-anchored on weekend shows. "A date at which Gregg might return to air has yet to be determined," the Fox News statement to CNN said. CNN's Shawn Nottingham contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/justice/aaron-hernandez-carlos-ortiz-plea/index.html	crime	Aaron Hernandez associate pleads not guilty to murder - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 02:38:05 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- An associate of former NFL player Aaron Hernandez pleaded not guilty Tuesday to a charge of murder in connection with the 2013 homicide of Odin Lloyd in Massachusetts -- a death in which Hernandez and another man also are charged. A judge ordered that Carlos Ortiz be held without bail following the plea in a Bristol County, Massachusetts, court. Ortiz and fellow Hernandez associate Ernest Wallace were indicted on murder charges last month. Wallace pleaded not guilty earlier this month. Authorities allege that Hernandez orchestrated the June shooting death of Lloyd in North Attleboro, and that Ortiz and Wallace were in a car with Hernandez that night. Hernandez, 24, is charged with first-degree murder and weapons charges in the death of Lloyd, a 27-year-old semi-pro football player. Hernandez also was charged this month with two counts of first-degree murder in the July 2012 killings of two men in Boston. Photos: Athletes charged with murder  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/justice/red-sox-announcer-son-guilty-murder/index.html	crime	Jared Remy, son of Red Sox announcer, guilty of killing fiancee - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 05:04:29 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Jared Remy, the son of famed Boston Red Sox broadcaster Jerry Remy, pleaded guilty in a Massachusetts court Tuesday to killing his fiance Jennifer Martel just days after he was arrested for assaulting her. Remy, 35, was sentenced Tuesday to life in state prison without the possibility of parole after changing his plea to guilty after he was charged with the August 2013 stabbing death of Martel, 27. "Jared Remy perceived that he was losing control of Jennifer Martel and lashed out at her in a fit of rage, killing her," Middlesex District Attorney Marian Ryan said in a statement. "Today, with this plea, the defendant has been held accountable for his actions. This plea ensures that Jared Remy will spend the rest of his natural life in prison." The gruesome details of the case rippled through the small community of Waltham, Massachusetts, after questions surfaced about why Remy had not been held on bail after his arrest just two days before the slaying. Remy was arrested on August 13 for assault and battery after Martel told police that Remy had grabbed her neck and head and "slammed her face against a mirror" in the bathroom during an argument, according to a Waltham police report. Martel fled the home with the couple's daughter to a neighbor's home and called 911. Martel could be heard on the call, which was released by police, saying "(Remy) is just a very violent person who is on lots of medication who might need serious help." Domestic violence facts When Martel filed for a restraining order, she told police that Remy had been arrested before for assaulting an ex-girlfriend, according to police. Remy was arrested by Waltham police after the incident and charged with assault and battery with a dangerous weapon. He was arraigned the next morning and released after posting just $40 for the bail fee, according to Waltham District Court documents. The next day, Remy returned to the Waltham home he shared with Martel and their child and stabbed her multiple times. The couple's daughter was home at the time, according to police. The Middlesex district attorney's office conducted an internal review after Martel's death, which resulted in some countywide procedural changes on how domestic abuse cases are handled. Remy is the son of famed Red Sox color commentator Jerry Remy. The elder Remy played for the Red Sox as a second baseman from 1978 to 1984 and was voted an all-star his first year with the team. Remy is also considered the president of Red Sox nation, according to the Red Sox homepage. Massachusetts abolished the death penalty in the early 1980s when lawmakers ruled it was unconstitutional. Remy will spend the rest of his life in prison without the possibility of parole. 'Shield' actor Michael Jace officially charged with wife's murder  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/justice/gambino-family-member-sentenced/index.html	crime	Man gets life in 1981 killings of bar owners, other crimes - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 08:01:41 EDT 2014	New York (CNN) -- Relatives of a bar owner killed more than 30 years ago over a spilled drink said Tuesday the life sentence given to a reputed mobster has finally brought them justice. Bartolomeo Vernace, 65, was sentenced in U.S. District Court to life without parole plus 10 years for his 2013 racketeering conspiracy conviction. Criminal acts from 1978 through 2011 included drug trafficking, illegal gambling and the 1981 double homicide of Richard Godkin and business partner John D'Agnese, according to prosecutors. They said Vernace held key roles with the Gambino organized crime family. "Thirty-three years is a very long time to wait for justice. We have our closure, but we have been waiting for justice," Godkin's daughter, Christine Orsini, told the court shortly before the sentencing. Vernace, wearing glasses and a blue jumpsuit, declined to make a statement prior to his sentencing. Defense attorneys Charles Carnesi and Joseph DiBenedetto said there will be an appeal. Vernace has maintained his innocence, Carnesi said. Family's long journey for justice in case Godkin and D'Agnese ran the Shamrock Bar in Queens when they were killed the night of April 11, 1981, after a dispute between an alleged Gambino family associate and others in the bar over a drink spilled on his girlfriend. According to the U.S. Attorney's office, the patron left the crowded bar and picked up Vernace and a third accomplice. They went to the bar and gunned the "two innocent bar owners" down, authorities said. Vernace, also known as "Bobby Glasses," went into hiding in the weeks after the slaying, according to the U.S. Attorney's Office statement, but would emerge years later to take an active role in the Gambino family. Vernace was charged in 1998 in Queens County Supreme Court with the deaths of Godkin and D'Agnese, but was acquitted of state charges after trial in 2002, according to prosecutors. According to all accounts, no witness could identify Vernace. It wasn't until Vernace was arrested in January 2011 as part of a national sweep of 100 alleged members and associates of organized crime that he was brought up on the federal racketeering charges. During the federal trial in 2013, an eyewitness testified he recognized all three assailants in the bar but lied during the state trial out of fear, saying "two men were dead over a spilled drink. I think that was reason enough to be afraid." That eyewitness testified that he saw Vernace point a gun at Godkin's head and saw one of Vernace's accomplices threatening D'Agnese with a gun, according to a 2013 statement by the U.S. Attorney's Office. D'Agnese was shot in the head and Godkin was shot in the chest when he tried to intervene, according to court documents. Godkin's children and grandchildren filled the courtroom Tuesday and embraced prosecutors following the sentencing. "It took too long, but we will take it," Godkin's widow, Catherine Godkin, said outside court. "Justice has finally been served thanks to the lawyers, the jury, and all the witnesses who testified." CNN's Susan Candiotti and Ross Levitt contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/justice/scotus-police-chase/index.html	crime	Supreme Court: Police justified in deadly 2004 car chase - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 10:34:50 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The U.S. Supreme Court ruled unanimously Tuesday that police officers were within their rights to use deadly force in a 2004 two-state car chase and shooting that ended with two people killed in western Tennessee. The justices, in a 9-0 ruling, also said the police officers involved are immune from lawsuits. The incident in question began in July 2004, when police in West Memphis, Arkansas, questioned Donald Rickard at a gas station about a broken light on his white Honda. Rickard refused to step out the car and then took off. With his girlfriend, Kelly Allen, in the passenger seat, Rickard crossed over the Mississippi River into Tennessee along Interstate 40. After Rickard rammed a police car head-on and sideswiped another, police fired 15 shots into the vehicle, mounted cameras from police vehicles show. The car went airborne and slammed into a house in Memphis. Rickard and Allen, both 44, were killed. Rickard's daughter subsequently sued, saying unreasonable force was used, since her father was neither armed nor had just committed a serious criminal offense. Justices side with Secret Service over anti-Bush protest CNN's Bill Mears contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/us/california-kidnap-victim-found/index.html	us	Neighbors baffled that California woman was kidnapped - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 01:06:30 EDT 2014	Tune in to "New Day" during the 8 a.m. ET hour when we'll speak to Charles Frisco, the attorney for Isidro Garcia. (CNN) -- After an August 2004 domestic dispute, police say, a 15-year-old girl left her Santa Ana, California, home, seeking refuge in a nearby park adjacent to an elementary school. Her mother's boyfriend, who police say had just attacked the mother, followed the girl. She told him she wanted to go home, that she had a headache, according to police. The mother's boyfriend told the teen that her mother had called the cops to have her deported and gave her five unidentified pills, police say. She woke up trapped in a Compton garage, about 25 miles from home. And so began a decade-long kidnapping saga that police say came to an end this week when the woman -- now married to her alleged kidnapper and mother to their daughter, 3 -- reached out to her sister on Facebook in April before contacting authorities over the weekend, said Santa Ana police spokesman Cpl. Anthony Bertagna. "You're talking about a 15-year-old, came to this country, doesn't speak English," Bertagna said, explaining how the teen had arrived in the United States only six months before her abduction. "Her mother's boyfriend decides he wants to physically and sexually abuse her. He tells her that her mother doesn't care, that she can't go to the police because they'll deport her." Isidro Garcia, 42, was arrested during a traffic stop Wednesday. He is charged with a felony count of forcible rape, three felony counts of lewd acts on a minor and a felony count of kidnapping to commit a sexual offense. If convicted of all three crimes, he could face life in a state prison, according to prosecutors. Until he's given the chance to convince the court otherwise, Garcia is being held on $1 million bail; if he somehow posted that, he'd stay detained because U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has a hold on him. "We're not talking about consensual sexual contact, we're talking about a forcible rape, and we're talking about repeated sexual abuse, emotional abuse and physical abuse," Farrah Emami, an Orange County District Attorney's spokeswoman, told reporters Thursday. "... This is a victim, no matter how you spin it." Garcia's lawyer, Charles Frisco Jr., says his client is the one suffering, needlessly, now. "He didn't do this," Frisco told CNN's Anderson Cooper. "It's that simple." Accused's lawyer: 'She was very independent' To hear Frisco tell it, Isidro Garcia is a "stellar" husband, a doting father, a hard worker and a good man -- the type who worked two jobs, held raffles for disadvantaged children and loved his wife. "I was told by numerous people that he treated her like a queen," Frisco told reporters, citing relatives, friends, neighbors, a nanny, even a police officer who knew the family. "He was devoted." Isidro Garcia was not someone who held his wife against her will all these years, according to Frisco. Despite being repeatedly pressed by CNN's Cooper, the lawyer said he didn't have all the facts to confirm or deny that the alleged victim was only 15 at the time. Regardless, Franco insisted, "there's nothing" to the prosecution's case beyond her claims. "She had her own car. She had her own job," the lawyer said. "She was very independent -- completely free." Frisco mused that it didn't make sense for her to suddenly come forward now, after a decade together. He speculated it might have had something to do with marital problems, saying the couple was in the process of splitting up. "We all know what happens when people break up," Frisco told CNN. "The marriage falls apart. People get angry. People say things that aren't necessarily true." Decade-long mystery But authorities say that it wasn't easy for this young woman to muster the courage to come forward. The fact it took her a decade to do so doesn't change the fact numerous crimes were committed, they say. Lt. Scott Fairfield of the police force in Bell Gardens, where the woman -- now 25 -- had been living in an apartment with her husband and child, said she walked into the police station on her own earlier this year and said she had been kidnapped and "held ... against her will." The alleged victim told police that Garcia began sexually assaulting her in June 2004, shortly after she arrived in the country. Her mother suspected as much but had no evidence, a police news release said. When the teen woke up in the single-car Compton garage, its only exit was blocked by a vehicle, she further told police. Garcia gave her false identification and made her work with him as a janitor at a night cleaning service, Bertagna said. He kept a close eye on her at work, while physically, mentally and sexually abusing her, telling her that her parents weren't looking for her, the police corporal said. They moved four times to avoid being discovered, Bertagna said, and the two times she tried to escape, she was caught and "beaten for her efforts." In 2007, Garcia married the girl in Los Angeles, police say, and in 2012 they had a child together. It's that child who gave the woman the courage to finally report her abduction, Bertagna said. "She wanted to break the cycle so the child wouldn't be abused," he said. 'Happy' reunion between mother, daughter The alleged victim tearfully told CNN affiliate KABC the same thing and explained that she was afraid to report Garcia or seek help from her Bell Gardens neighbors because everyone thought Garcia was a good husband and provider. "He was a workman. He works hard for me and my daughter and bought everything I want," she told the station, her back to the camera as she held her daughter. "I need the love of my family, not things." She said that despite maintaining the facade of the happy couple, she longed only to be reunited with her family during the 10 years she was with Garcia. "I'm so happy and God-blessed to be with my family. That's what I want all the time. All the time I cry for them, more for my mom and my sisters," she said. "I think I was alone, but I wasn't ever. My family was with me." The woman's mother had one word to describe the reunion with her daughter. "I'm so happy. God is everything," she told KABC. "Happy, happy, happy." No sign of abuse Neighbors don't know what to think. They recall "Tomas" and his wife, who also used a pseudonym (CNN is not identifying the woman because she is an alleged rape victim), as a happy couple who liked to dance at their elaborate parties complete with catering and clowns. Photos obtained by CNN affiliate KNBC show an apparently normal couple, embracing and grinning for the camera. "They'd be happy, kissing, holding hands," said Maribel Garcia, who has lived at the same apartment complex as the couple for four years. A next-door neighbor who identified herself only as Erika said Isidro Garcia -- whom she knew as Tomas -- was really nice, and Erika spoke to the couple every time she saw them. When the alleged victim became pregnant, "she was really happy with the news," Erika said. "She never showed a sad face or worried face," she said. Yet while Erika was told that the alleged victim's mother never liked Isidro Garcia, a different story was given to Maribel Garcia, who told CNN that she heard Isidro Garcia had recently bought a truck for his wife's mother. Neighbors say Isidro Garcia also purchased a laptop and a car for his wife, and he was paying for womb massages because the couple was hoping to have another child. Neighbors recall meeting the couple's family members, as well as the couple taking trips to visit relatives. Isidro Garcia's wife took off work during her pregnancy, they say, and after their daughter was born, she often took the girl to the park, market or local Circle K convenience store in a stroller. She was regularly unaccompanied, even in her car, they say. "She had plenty of time to actually escape so it's hard to believe this is really going on because she had a lot of free time," Erika said. Added Maribel Garcia, "They just seemed like a happy couple. That why it's hard for us to understand the situation. ... She could've gone to the police station and said something. I just don't understand." Regardless, police insist the woman was not a willing participant in the relationship and she told police she had no desire to have sex, get married or conceive a child. "Sounds like she feared for her life," Bertagna said. "There's more ways to keep people down than just physically." Asked about the neighbors' remarks that the woman should've fled or reached out to police sooner, Bertagna dismissed the idea and noted her age at the time of the alleged abduction. "Where's she going to go?" he asked. "She's 15 years old. She's new here. She doesn't get it." Ohio captive recalls being "punching bag" Abused but alive: Lessons from survivors CNN's Greg Botelho, Michael Martinez, Sara Sidner, Dana Ford and Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report. CNN was first alerted to the story via tweets from the Santa Ana Police Department. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/tech/web/rap-genius-fired-shooting/index.html	tech	Tech exec fired for comments about California rampage - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 12:17:56 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The co-founder of Rap Genius, an online-annotation website, has been fired after marking up the 137-page manifesto of California killer Elliot Rodger with comments that are being called tasteless and creepy. Mahbod Moghadam used his site, which lets users post notes interpreting rap and hip-hop lyrics, to comment on Rodger's exhaustive autobiography, which includes his reasons for killing six people in Santa Barbara, California, on Friday before apparently turning a gun on himself. In more than one note, Moghadam called Rodger's writing "beautiful," and in another he speculated on the attractiveness of Rodger's sister. In a journal and in a video posted online, Rodger had expressed frustrations about not finding women to date and resentment toward couples who kissed in front of him. He also wrote that his anger toward women intensified after he overheard his sister having sex with her boyfriend. "MY GUESS: his sister is smokin hot," Moghadam wrote. Moghadam also made comments about a girl Rodger described as the only female his age he ever saw naked. "Maddy will go on to attend USC and become a spoiled hottie," Moghadam wrote, before adding, "This is an artful sentence, beautifully written... ." Rap Genius has removed the notations. But they were captured and reposted online by Gawker, Re/code and other news sites. Why #YesAllWomen took off on Twitter On Monday, Rap Genius co-founder and CEO Tom Lehman released a written statement saying that Moghadam had resigned. "Mahbod Moghadam, one of my co-founders, annotated the piece with annotations that not only didn't attempt to enhance anyone's understanding of the text, but went beyond that into gleeful insensitivity and misogyny," he wrote. "All of which is contrary to everything we're trying to accomplish at Rap Genius." Lehman continued: "Mahbod is my friend. He's a brilliant, creative, complicated person with a ton of love in his heart. Without Mahbod Rap Genius would not exist, and I am grateful for all he has done to help Rap Genius succeed. "But I cannot let him compromise the Rap Genius mission -- a mission that remains almost as delicate and inchoate as it was when we three founders decided to devote our lives to it almost 5 years ago." Lehman said the site, which describes its mission as helping users "discover the meaning of rap lyrics," decided to post Rodger's writings in hopes that users' annotations "will eventually be a good resource for people looking to understand this tragedy." Part One of Rodger's writings currently appears on Rap Genius between breakdowns of the lyrics to "Believe Me" by Lil Wayne and John Legend's "All Of Me." In December, Google penalized Rap Genius after a user exposed what he called a scheme to manipulate search results and drive traffic to the site. The site removed the offending links and regained its Google ranking. As is frequently the case in today's digital world, the social-media backlash against Moghadam's comments was fast and brutal. "Appalling use of technology by already questionable behaving site," Re/code co-executive editor Kara Swisher wrote on Twitter with a link to that site's story. "What's most newsworthy about the story of the Rap Genius founder isn't that he was fired but that he didn't think his words were wrong," tweeted author and tech journalist Ed Bott. Observers also criticized Moghadam's own Twitter feed, which features many posts that could be viewed as crude at best and sexist at worst. On Monday, Moghadam took to Twitter to beg forgiveness for his comments. "I want to apologize to everyone," he wrote. "I need to hear these criticisms, reflect for real, and work on becoming a better person."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/tech/mobile/hackers-iphones/index.html	tech	Hackers locking iPhones, demanding ransoms - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 04:45:19 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A large number of people, mostly located in Australia, are reporting they have come under an unexplained attack that holds their iPhones and iPads hostage and demands they pay a $100 ransom. The attack appears to work by compromising iCloud accounts associated with the disabled devices, according to an Apple support forum discussion that started Sunday morning and quickly accumulated several hundred posts. Commandeered devices typically emit a loud tone that's associated with a feature that helps users locate lost or stolen devices. iPhones and iPads also display the message: "Device hacked by Oleg Pliss. For unlock device, you need send voucher code by 100 usd/eur (Moneypack/Ukash/PaySafeCard) to email:lock404@hotmail.com for unlock." In some casesspecifically, when a user hasn't assigned a strong passcode to a locked deviceit can only be unlocked by performing a factory reset, which completely wipes all previously stored data and apps. The mass compromise is a variation on so-called ransomware scams, which initially targeted Windows PC users and earlier this month were found targeting smartphone users running Google's Android OS. The forum accounts provide strong evidence that victims' Apple IDs and passwords have been compromised so that attackers can remotely lock connected devices using Apple's Find My iPhone service. But so far it remains unclear exactly how the attackers are compromising the iCloud accounts. While it's possible the hijackers used phishing attacks or hacked password databases to obtain the credentials, those explanations are undermined by the observation that the vast majority of victims were located in Australia and reported using a variety of e-mail providers. Typically, phishing campaigns and database compromises involving multiple providers affect users from more geographic regions. DNS poisoning? One participant in the online discussion theorized the mass compromise may have been the result of hacking domain name system (DNS) servers used by Australian service providers to translate human readable addresses such as Apple.com into the IP addresses Internet routers rely on. Such an attack, which has yet to be confirmed in this case, works by "poisoning" the lookup tables of DNS servers so they secretly direct people to impostor sites. Assuming this technique was at play in the iPhone and iPad locking, affected users who entered a password on what appeared to be Apple's site could have unknowingly provided it to the people behind the attack. Apple officials have yet to comment on the report. There is no indication the hijackings are the result of any compromise on Apple servers, so that leaves end users to figure out for themselves how to secure their own devices. Readers are once again advised to use long, randomly generated passwords that are unique to their iCloud account. They should also enable two-factor authentication and assign a separate, randomly generated passcode to each iPhone and iPad they own. Readers are reminded they can be permanently locked out of their Apple ID accounts, and possibly their iPhone or iPad when running iOS 7 with Find My iPhone turned on, if they are compromised before two-factor authentication is enabled. Two-factor authentication won't automatically prevent an attacker from compromising an iCloud account, but it will prevent the attacker from changing security questions and other crucial settings in the event of a breach. The identities of the people behind the attack are unknown. There's no indication they have any connection to anyone named Oleg Pliss. People with a locked device should immediately try changing the credentials for their Apple ID and ensure two-factor authentication is set up. In the event their locked device didn't have a passcode associated with it, they can perform a factory reset by using a cable to plug the device into their computer while iTunes is open. More instructions are here.  COPYRIGHT 2011 ARSTECHNICA.COM 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/tech/innovation/drone-uav-photography/index.html	tech	How to shoot amazing video from drones - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 07:58:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A bird's eye camera sweeps over the green fields of Ireland, flies over the towering Cliffs of Moher and pans the ocean hundreds of feet below. It's just like a scene in a movie. But this is not Hollywood magic. The spectacular footage was shot, not by a film crew in a helicopter, but with an inexpensive toy drone -- an unmanned aerial vehicle, or UAV, as hobbyists call them -- operated by Andreas Ostermann. And with a few hundred dollars and some practice, you can make breathtaking aerial videos, too. "It is the closest thing to flying like a bird," said Ostermann, an aerial-photography hobbyist who lives in Germany. "My inspiration is to show how beautiful these shots can be and that this hobby is not at all dangerous if you know what you do." The world of remote-control aircraft has been around for decades, but the growth and technological wizardry of UAVs have created a new wave of hobbyists trying their hand at aerial photography. From views of stunning vistas, waterfronts and landmarks to overhead shots of a house about to fall off an eroding cliff or a cheery scene of a fox trotting on ice, there are a lot of creative, fun ways people are using recreational drones for aerial videos. "Originally it was just a bunch of guys tinkering and building things. Now people want to focus on the applications rather than the technology," said Timothy Reuter, founder of the Washington, D.C. Area Drone User Group, the largest UAV club in the country. Instead of building drones from kits, Reuter and others like him are turning to off-the-shelf models that are ready to fly. "Recently some of the sophisticated capabilities have gotten cheap and easy to use," he said. "The difference between the professional and hobbyist tools isn't that big anymore -- that's part of the revolution." Since the FAA's 2007 warning not to use drones for commercial purposes, there's been some debate and confusion in the hobbyist community about what you can and can't do with aerial photography. So before you go out and strap a GoPro to a ready-made drone, here's what you need to know: Learn the rules Keep drones and other model aircraft less than 400 feet above the ground and make sure you're not within 3 miles of an airport or air traffic, per FAA guidelines. Also check your state law, as some states are more strict with trespassing laws. Flying over someone's land could be considered trespassing. While it's tempting to turn aerial drone photography into a business, beware that the FAA regulates commercial flights on a case-by-case basis. Only two commercial operations have been approved, and those are for exploratory flights in the Arctic. P.S. Before you take your drone to shoot footage on vacation, do your research first. UAV laws vary in each country. Join a club or find an instructor It's better to work with experienced flyers than to test the skies alone. "Find a community to learn with if you're going to be serious, like a drone group or through the Academy of Model Aeronautics," said Reuter. "They'll teach you how to be safe and prevent any accidents." Study different models and what they can do Toy drones, like the Blade Nano QX, are great introductory models for people learning how to fly, said Reuter. This model runs about $80 online. Moving up to mid-range models, consider UAVs that come fully assembled, such as 3D Robotics' Iris model, which runs $750. The company's CEO, Chris Anderson, pioneered one of the first online drone forums, DIY Drones. One of the more popular mid-range UAVs is DJI's Phantom series. This quadcopter, priced from $500 without a camera and $1,000 and up for a model with an attached GoPro, is geared toward folks interested in aerial photography. If you're looking for something smaller than the Phantom, check out Reuter's recent creation, the Pocket Drone. The multi-copter is lightweight and portable enough to fit in a backpack, he said. Start small Learn to fly a cheap toy drone before adding a camera. Once you know how to operate that, you can fly a larger model, advises Patrick McKay, a Colorado hobbyist who's been flying UAVs since 2011. "Don't invest too much initially, since you will inevitably crash a lot while learning." Keep practicing until you're comfortable Canadian photographer Brent Foster encourages newcomers to learn how to fly in manual mode first. That way if your GPS goes out, "it'll save you from a crash," said the former LA Times photojournalist who got hooked on flying UAVs two years ago. Knowing your gear and its limitations will be valuable for when you fly in new, sometimes unpredictable situations, several UAV hobbyists said. Video: How to get started flying UAVs Put safety first "Always think about what you might hit if your craft crashed on a given flight," said McKay, a Colorado hobbyist. "Don't fly over large crowds of people doing event photography unless you have a lot of experience and confidence in your equipment, and stay away from areas/altitudes where you could pose a collision risk to manned aircraft." Use online resources Online forums and Facebook groups are great place to learn more about the hobby. DIY Drones is a pioneer forum that continues to be active. Other online resources include Multi-Rotor Forums, the DJI Phantom Users Group on Facebook and tons of local radio-controlled flyer group sites. Have fun Once you have the rules, safety precautions and practice time under your belt, it's time to have fun. "I love flying in the mountains and zooming down mountainsides," said McKay. "It allows me to experience all the thrills of flight in spectacular locations with my body never leaving the ground."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/tech/social-media/facebook-dinosaur-mascot/index.html	tech	Forget Godzilla: Facebook rolls out its own dinosaur - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 04:49:26 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's been a big week for dinosaurs. With "Godzilla" still rampaging at the box office, Facebook also rolled out some privacy changes along with a friendly blue dino to help explain them all. In addition to making settings for all new users default to "Friends Only," Facebook announced Thursday it will prompt existing users to review their privacy settings. Your new guide to the intricacies of controlling your personal info on the world's biggest social platform? A blue cartoon dinosaur with a snaggletooth, tapping away at a laptop that looks like some kind of Macbook. "Hi!" reads one of the new pop-up windows, presumably relaying the sentiments of the new Mesozoic spirit animal. "Sorry to interrupt. You haven't changed who can see your post lately, so we just wanted to make sure you're sharing this post with the right audience." Fair enough. It's part of an effort that Facebook has been undertaking for months to clarify and tighten privacy settings, something critics have dinged the site for in the past. But why a dinosaur? "Our team looked at a few different characters, saw the dinosaur, and just thought he was the friendliest and best choice," said Raylene Yung, an engineering manager on Facebook's privacy team. "Once we tried him out, we saw some great results and welcomed him to the team." Dubbed the "Zuckasaurus" by The New York Times in a nod to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, the (thankfully) un-Barney-like creature joins an ever-growing pantheon of tech mascots. From TiVo's smiley, leggy TV guy to Google Android's android, there has been no shortage of cutesy characters introduced by Web and tech companies to reinforce brand identity or help set themselves apart from the masses. As a species, they've provoked a wide variety of reactions. Some, like Reddit's beloved Snoo, the Twitter bird and the early Web's Ask Jeeves butler invoke warm feelings among users. Even Twitter's "Fail Whale," which showed up years ago whenever the platform was over capacity, had its fans. Other mascots weren't so lucky. Clippy, Microsoft's talking paper clip, became one of the computing age's most mocked, if not reviled, characters. Early Windows users were forced to click him out of existence over and over again as he popped up to give advice of sometimes questionable value. Plus, he's a talking paper clip. Kind of creepy. Then-CEO Bill Gates retired Clippy in 2001, though he was brought back in 2011 for a Microsoft Office tutorial -- but only if users chose him. Then there was the Pets.com sock puppet. Amusing enough at first, the puppet's schtick had already started getting old by 2001, when the site went belly up, its once-ballyhooed stock worth a whopping 22 cents a share. Will Facebook's privacy dino catch on? Or will he (or she) be mocked into extinction? Only time will tell. On Twitter, some users Friday were calling the creature a "safeasaur" or a "privasaurus." The New York Times said the Zuckasaurus "could suffer the cruel fate of other tech industry cartoon characters if Facebook slips on its promise to be more mindful of users' privacy." Meanwhile, we'll just be thankful it's not purple.  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/12/13/tech/social-media/netiquette-final-column/index.html	tech	Netiquette: Saying farewell - CNN.com	2012/12/13	Thursday Dec 13 12:53:04 EST 2012	Editor's note: Brenna Ehrlich and Andrea Bartz have been the sarcastic brains behind the blog and book "Stuff Hipsters Hate." Got a question about etiquette in the digital world? Contact them at netiquette@cnn.com. (CNN) -- In the wise words of Joshua Ferris, "Then We Came to the End." We're rapidly approaching the close of 2012 and the technical end of autumn. And of course, according to (pseudo-scholars of) the Mayan calendar, we're a mere week away from The End of the World. All that finality got us thinking about how folks really manage to lose their netiquette heads when they scramble, legs flailing and akimbo, toward the denouement of events and life chapters. So here is the ultimate (get it?) guide to a polite big finish. If you're leaving your job ... Generally, it's wise to wait until your last day or so to let the LOLcat out of the bag (which is to say, to tweet or blog or otherwise post about your new gig). Why? Because until the ink has dried on your contract, you don't want to run your mouth and risk sharing an update your new company wanted to announce itself. Plus, your current employer might not want to be hit with a torrent of resumes. Remember to give your professional contacts your new e-mail address before your account is shut down. Then social-media up a storm on your first day or after your first week gushing about how much you love your new gig. Just don't do it during business hours. Obviously. If you're leaving a city ... The most heartfelt farewells will happen in person, but you do need to let your more casual acquaintances know about the relocation. A mass e-mail is wise, as are a few Paul Revere-esque "Moving day is coming! Moving day is coming!" updates on your social networking site of choice. But brace yourself: You'll likely continue to receive mass digital invites to events and debauchery in your former city from well-meaning but clueless contacts. Calmly write back to the inviter, explain that you won't be attending because you're flipping 2,000 miles away, and ask to be taken off the attendant chain of e-mails/texts/Facebook messages. If your company goes kaput ... The unemployment rate may have ticked down, but bankruptcies and shut-downs are still rampant (co-columnist Andi's magazine, "Martha Stewart's Whole Living," was shuttered on Friday, in fact). Stay classy to aid your job search and keep the bridges behind you unburned. Wait until the employer has made official statements to the press (don't blow the lid off the thing sooner), and then use whatever outlets you have to spread the word that you're back on the market. (Hi there!) (Hey, we couldn't very well call ourselves Netiquette experts if we weren't big on the Art of Self-Promotion, right?) If you're leaving your wife ... Digital missives should not, we repeat, should not be involved in the actual dumping. It's an obvious warning that more than a third of adults bewilderingly ignore. Suck it up and place a phone call or discuss it in person. Then let your close friends or parents or whomever know about the break-up (we recommend using e-mail or the phone) before you go switching up your relationship status on Facebook (or worse, creating an online dating profile). You don't want your loved ones to call you in alarm after a stalk-y friend alerts them to your new Single status, do you? If you're hanging up your hat as Netiquette columnists ... You take a bow and move on. These last 2.5+ years (and 130+ columns) have been real, and we're legit grateful to the readers and fans who responded with balanced criticism, intelligent questions and positive feedback. We've enjoyed mouthing off and calling out netiquette breaches as we saw 'em, and hope you've picked up a pointer or two. But we're moving on with our writing lives -- Brenna with a YA novel, Andi with a screenplay -- and we thought it wise to tap out before the world comes to a smoldering end. And to all the haters: Good luck with your lives as well as basic motor tasks. You desperately need it. -- Andi & Brenna  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/28/tech/mobile/netiquette-eight-phone-habits/index.html	tech	10 smartphone habits you should avoid - CNN.com	2012/09/28	Friday Sep 28 10:54:50 EDT 2012	Editor's note: Brenna Ehrlich and Andrea Bartz are the sarcastic brains behind humor blog and book "Stuff Hipsters Hate." Got a question about etiquette in the digital world? Contact them at netiquette@cnn.com. (CNN) -- We begin this week's column with a stunningly beautiful quote from Anais Nin (brought to our attention by the inimitable site Brainpickings). Read it slowly because it's that good. (Yes, we're enculturating you in Netiquette. We can hear the shouty, complainy e-mails already.) "The secret of a full life is to live and relate to others as if they might not be there tomorrow, as if you might not be there tomorrow. ... This thought has made me more and more attentive to all encounters, meetings, introductions, which might contain the seed of depth that might be carelessly overlooked. "This feeling has become a rarity, and rarer every day now that we have reached a hastier and more superficial rhythm, now that we believe we are in touch with a greater amount of people, more people, more countries. This is the illusion which might cheat us of being in touch deeply with the one breathing next to us. The dangerous time when mechanical voices, radios, telephones, take the place of human intimacies, and the concept of being in touch with millions brings a greater and greater poverty in intimacy and human vision." Nin wrote those words in 1946, but she might as well have been writing them today. She starts with a YOLO and ends with a contemporary-sounding rumination of just how horrible we've all become now that we hold the power to be in touch with millions of people in the palms of our hands. That's right, we're talking about how annoying and rude and antisocial we've all become with our smartphones and tablets. As CNN investigates all the ways mobile devices are changing our lives, we'd like to peel our eyes off our glowing screens long enough to recount our top eight egregious handheld errors. These are things you literally could not do before the www went mobile; now we're embarrassing ourselves all over the place. Please stop: 1. Drunk -tweeting, -texting, -Instagramming, etc. Long gone are the days when the only witnesses to your inebriated ramblings were other bar patrons who also saw you stumble from your bar stool to the ground. Whether you're able to keep it together with spelling and syntax (in which case, you've just got the world going, "Wait, she wants to do WHAT to Paul Ryan?!"), or your typing skills erode quickly, alcohol and mobile devices don't mix. 2. Fooling around on your phone whenever you have a spare moment. As writer Austin Kleon writes in his alarmingly cute book, "Steal Like an Artist," we need unstructured time for creativity to foster, down time in which we mess around and let our disconnected thoughts gel into cool ideas. If you turn every spare moment (a red light, a line at the salad station, a ride in the elevator) into an excuse to check your Cinemagram feed, you just won't have those artistic a ha! moments. (And no, "Draw Something" doesn't count.) 3. Passive-aggressively whining for the whole world to see. Look, we all have our personal stock of First World Problems, frustrated complaints with the minor injustices committed by a cruel, uncaring world. That's been true since the dawn of time. Now we just have myriad means of expressing them. Nobody cares about your thinly veiled railings against your ex or roommate or employer, OK? Unless you've scribbled it on a notepad, in which case you should share it with the world. So that we can laugh at you. 4. Being really, really scared to actually use the phone. Phones and tablets have made it oh so easy to communicate without using our voiceboxes. This is bad for relationships for oh so many reasons. Anais Nin would just hate it. Hit "dial" and enjoy the time-honored pas de deux of two humans, you know, talking. 5. Missing your favorite band's concert because you're so busy taking crappy photos, letting your phone ring and fiddling with your phone during the set. Your hard-of-hearing, reformed punk-rock uncle was right: Concerts really WERE better back in the day, not necessarily because music really meant something, man, but because the audience actually paid attention and sang along and danced instead of holding their phones in the air and spending 30-plus seconds trying to find the shutter button on the front of the screen. Your punkle would be so disappointed if he still made it out to shows today. 6. Texting salacious pictures. The ritual sharing of NC-17 photos used to be a complicated analog affair involving Polaroids and furtive looks. Nowadays, people just drop trou, snap and send. Analyze THAT, Anais Nin. 7. Turning your friends into enemies with videos of them. Camcorders have become tiny and discreet and as user-friendly as checking your e-mail. This is potentially bad news for those people you hang out with, as you hold in your hands a recording device that can humiliate them forever. Set ground rules and roll the camera judiciously, lest you wind up publicly shaming a friend for her foul mouth, caught-on-film fart or unpopular political opinions. 8. Letting your seething anger leach out into the world at large. Humans have always done stupid things when they're emotionally riled up. Now, those tantrums and rages and outbursts are shared and cached for the world to see. Take a deep breath and put down the smartphone. 9. Texting while walking. Rarely does this go well. Whatever's so urgent can probably wait a few minutes. Or you can, you know, actually call the person (see No. 4). 10. Using your phone in the bathroom. Don't. Just don't.  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/08/22/tech/web/netiquette-terrible-texts/index.html	tech	Netiquette: Five texts you should never send - CNN.com	2012/08/22	Wednesday Aug 22 08:43:36 EDT 2012	Editor's note: Brenna Ehrlich and Andrea Bartz are the sarcastic brains behind humor blog and book "Stuff Hipsters Hate." Got a question about etiquette in the digital world? Contact them at netiquette@cnn.com. (CNN) -- We're texting more than ever, and, like society, the texts themselves are getting worse and worse. That's a conclusion cobbled together from the Pew Internet and American Life Project, which found that the median number of texts adults send and receive in a day doubled from 2009 to 2010, and much anecdotal observation from the authors. Read on to learn just how terrible silent cell phone users are these days, and the five texts that should never traverse that satellite-banked arc from your hands to the eyes of another. 1. "I think we should see other people."  It isn't just skittish teenagers pulling this rude move. Last year, a survey from Lab 42 found that 33% of adults (adults!) had broken up with someone via text, e-mail or Facebook. Forty percent said they "would ever" do it, indicating that 7% of the surveyed humans are soulless jerks who haven't but would hurtfully sever ties with a lover if only someone would respond to their advances. Yes, breaking up is hard. Knowing you're going to hurt someone you cared about with your words indeed makes your stomach do some Cirque de Soleil-esque acrobatics. But shooting over a one-way missive to deliver the news for you? It's supremely cruel, because it leaves the other person cocking his or her head with Fred Willard-esque histrionics and asking, "Hey, wha' happened?" That complete lack of closure (not to mention the dearth of soothing, I-care-about-you-as-a-human-being signals you send with your voice and motions) add up to WAY more ruminating than is necessary. Netiquette: Be careful when diagnosing your ailments online  The break-up text is only this much more noble than ghosting on someone you're dating, letting the silences grow longer and longer until you can tell yourself it was a mutual separation and then scuttle into the night like a cowardly cockroach. If you went on enough dates to call this person your boyfriend or girlfriend, he or she deserves at least a call. 2. "Will you marry me?" A text proposal. It actually happened, people. And if that isn't innards-wrenchingly horrific enough, after it happened, Miss Manners went on to condone it. Can we please consider marriage proposals one of the few remaining bastions of old-fashioned romance, free from the lackadaisical pall that technology has cast over everything? Unless you've rigged some clever feat that ties in the nerdy way you met, your phone should be put away, your knee should be on the pavement, and your hands should be clutching a ring, not picking a ringtone. 3. "We're thinking about going to Shortstop later but Aiden is still napping & Mona was talking abt having ppl over for a cookout. IDK if I want to be out in the heat tho since I'm still hungo from Bosco's pirate party thing last night. Are you and Weeds still... [1 of 2]" 4. "...wandering around the park or did you want to do something later? Hit me up if you see this before 10. Gonna go pass out for a while. [2 of 2]" Texting was supposed to save us time by letting us bypass the phone call and just instantly telegraph the important stuff. But we've grown so reliant upon it that we obliviously miss, Mr. Bean-like, the conversations that could happen expeditiously over the phone. Netiquette: An open letter to texting-crazed teens So often, we put our thumbs to work typing out long and convoluted messages that warrant a detailed, meticulous volley of responses, when wagging our tongues would have cleared things up in 30 seconds flat. More than half of texters have "long, personal text message exchanges," according to a 2010 survey. They are all wasting time. Our rule of (red, raw, overused) thumb: If your text is longer than two sentences and it demands a response other than a simple yes or no, just hit Call. You'll save everyone a little time and a lot of confusion. 5. [a photo of your junk] According to a Pew Research Center study that is (according to the Times) due out later this year, 6% of American adults -- that's one in 17 upstanding citizens -- has sent a nude or nearly nude (but not "never-nude") photo on a cell phone. And 15% have received such a text. (Apparently these self-portraitists are prolific.) Leave something to the imagination, folks. Netiquette: Five ways to annoy people on Twitter   
http://www.cnn.com/2012/08/01/tech/netiquette-open-letter-teenagers/index.html	tech	An open letter to texting-crazed teens - CNN.com	2012/08/01	Wednesday Aug 1 10:48:22 EDT 2012	Editor's note: Editor's note: Brenna Ehrlich and Andrea Bartz are the sarcastic brains behind humor blog and book "Stuff Hipsters Hate." Got a question about etiquette in the digital world? Contact them at netiquette@cnn.com. (CNN) -- Young people of America: We get it. You're coming of age having never known an Internet-free existence. You'll never know what it's like to phone a friend at 10:01 p.m. and politely ask if it's too late to call, or to bike to a neighbor's and ring his doorbell with no preconceived notions of his whereabouts. You won't understand what it's like to have to yell for your dad to come to the basement to settle the argument over whether a loofah is an animal or a plant or whether one could, in theory, set one's farts on fire. The humor of the scene in "Clueless" where Cher and Dionne find each other in the high school hallway, mid-cell phone conversation, is probably lost on you. You haven't even seen "Clueless." We understand. While we can't really imagine our adolescence playing out so heavily on pixelated screens, we're able to sympathize. That's why our pleas to you come from a place of wisdom and concern, not of outdated notions or clinging vice-like to the past. Really, we older humans (fully aware that you find 93% of us very to extremely annoying) just don't want you to miss out on the vivid colors and poignant moments and slow-burn stories of the next seven decades of your existence. (That, and we're terrified you're going to make us obsolete as soon as you hit the job market.) With that place of loving care in mind, we give you our pleas. Stop sexting By its broadest definition -- sending explicit texts -- about half of 18- to 24-year-olds are doing it, according to recent research from the University of Michigan. And 28% of teenagers are texting fully nude photos of themselves, according to another new report. But, to quote every mother of a teenager ever, "If everyone else jumped off a bridge, would you do it, too?" Seriously, those 28% of people are dumb. They're risking public humiliation should they later realize they want to own a company or run for office (cough, cough, way too many male politicos, cough), and what's more, their digital dalliances may meet the legal definition of child pornography. Plus, anyone (teachers, parents, principals) nearby can read a new text when it pops up on your smartphone -- how mortified will you be when your boyfriend leaves his phone on the kitchen counter? Play it safe and text in sweet-sounding code words only. Stop texting so much In 2010, the average teen was sending more than 3,000 texts a month, according to a study from Nielsen. Three. Thousand. That's 3,000 moments when you've got your head ducked away from your surroundings, fingers flailing, tongue protruding from the lower right side of your mouth ever so slightly, sending someone an obviously inane missive when you could be just interacting with the people (or nature or cityscape or whatever) around you. It may feel natural, but when you're around anyone over 25, in particular, it comes off as very, very rude. Nobody enjoys being put on hold while the person 3 feet away from him or her taps all over a screen. And when the tapping goes on for hours on a 45-second loop, in response to every ding of a response? We promise, if you text your friend back just once to say you can't talk right now, no one will spontaneously implode. If anything, your bud's call-used finger pads will appreciate the much-needed break. Get over your fear of the phone Our parents couldn't believe how much time we spent on the phone in the early 2000s, lounging on pink carpet and twirling the phone's cord while parsing exactly what Darren meant by writing his and Janice's initials as the points on the vector on the chalkboard in geometry class. It probably seemed like a colossal waste of time, moments we should have spent doing homework while wearing our dental headgear or something. But voice-to-voice communication is becoming a lost art, and that's kind of a huge bummer. Nowadays, just 14% of teens say they talk daily with friends on a landline, down from 30% in 2009. And 31% of teens say they never talk on a landline with friends. Similarly, 26% of teens say they talk daily with friends on their cell phone, down from 38% of teens in 2009, according to the Pew Research Center. (And, yes, the amount of time that adults spend on the phone overall is probably declining too, thanks to wondrous inventions such as Seamless and ZocDoc that prevent us from actually having to deal with other human beings. But these are teens -- gabby, detail-obsessed beings with the intricate social structure of a clan of bonobos, who can spend seven hours together at school and still find material to cover in a four-hour phone conversation in the evening.) As we've said before, the phone offers unparalleled access to the thoughts and feelings of the person on the other end of the line. Only over the phone can you pick up on nuance, soothe a spurned friend appropriately and really get to the heart of why that beezy Jocelyn asked Greg to Turnabout when everyone knew you were planning to. We also worry that your not using the phone means you're going to be jerks when you get into the office world, adding to our bursting inboxes instead of picking up the damn phone every now and then. Our end goals may be selfish, but we want the best for everyone. Even ADD-addled, lightning-fingered, know-it-all you.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/tech/innovation/would-you-live-in-a-house-made-of-urine-and-bacteria/index.html	tech	Would you live in a house made of sand and bacteria? - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 11:32:54 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Peter Trimble found his formula through trial and error. A design student at the University of Edinburgh, he was aiming to produce an artistic exhibition for a module on sustainability, when he stumbled on "Dupe," a living alternative to concrete. A lab technician introduced Trimble to Sporosarcina pasteurii, a bacterium with binding qualities, sometimes used to solidify soil to hold road signs in place. The student tested it with one of the world's most abundant resources - sand. Pumping bacterial solution into a sand-filled mould, he added nutrients, urea derived from urine as fertilizer and calcium. After a year, and hundreds of failed experiments, this process manufactured a stool around 70% the compression strength of concrete. The process requires less than one-sixth of the energy used in concrete production, and is completely biodegradable. Crucially, Trimble believes his mechanism has the added benefit that it could be employed by anyone, anywhere. "Once you have the basic framework it should be transferable. Imagine a Tsunami-hit farm in Indonesia that is not getting supplies. You could use sand and bacteria on site, practically free, and have shelter housing that is far more permanent." Trimble is working with NGOs to apply Dupe to Aboriginal settlements and insecure regions of Morocco. But while the applications are new and experimental, the concept of growing the material for our built environment is increasingly regarded as not merely interesting, but essential. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the construction industry accounts for 40% of the world's C02 emissions, 40% of U.S. landfill and has been uniquely resistant to change. Concrete, bricks and cement have remained the dominant materials since the industrial revolution in the early 19th century, and as pressure mounts on resources and climate, scientists and architects are looking to the natural world for solutions. Building bacteria Bacteria have been at the center of alternative methods. North Carolina start-up Biomason is growing bricks on an industrial scale, cultivated from sand by microorganisms. The company has won major prizes and funding for the bricks, which will be used in a structure for the first time this year in a pedestrian walkway, ahead of building projects across the world. Similar processes are being developed to build in the most challenging environments. British architects see an opportunity to cultivate new life in deserts, while NASA believe bacteria could allow the construction of bases on other planets without the headache of ferrying the material there. While bacterial processes save heavily on carbon, there are concerns that by-products could be poisonous. But another living brick -- made from mushrooms -- has no such problems. Functional fungus  New York firm Ecovative are producing materials that combine agricultural waste products such as corn stock with mushroom mycelium -- the roots of the vegetable. Over five days the mycelium binds the waste to create a block with a stronger compressive strength than concrete, with none of the heat or energy required by regular bricks. The product is in commercial use for packaging, producing thousands of units a month, and the company is expanding into construction. Ecovative believe that in addition to being renewable and decomposable, natural properties give them a performance advantage. "It has great insulation properties", says Sam Harrington, Ecovative Director of Sustainability. "A key benefit is flame resistance -- without adding any chemicals we were able to achieve a Class A fire rating". There is scope for development. Mycelium effectively dies once its growth is complete, but Harrington is looking ahead to material that does not. "We are exploring ideas of living materials, perhaps that are self-healing or respond to leaks with indicators." Ecovative are in dialogue with major construction companies, and the material will soon be tested on a historic scale. A collaboration with architects The Living won the prestigious MOMA (Museum of Modern Art) PS-1 competition, and their creation will be installed in the museum courtyard this summer. Growing for gold "Hy-Fi" will be the largest ever grown structure, and first large building to claim zero carbon emissions. It will be formed of three 40-foot spiral towers constructed from the mushroom material, with varying properties of brick to maximise light and ventilation. The material's versatility offers unique design opportunities, says David Benjamin, lead architect of the project. "You can dial in almost any performance you want. You can mix and match a variety of properties such as water resistance or UV resistance, lightness or durability. You can grow the bricks in almost any shape" Benjamin says the bio-bricks could be made to last as long as traditional materials, but believes architecture must embrace temporary structures. "It's essential to recognize that not all materials should last for centuries. A lot of the steel in our buildings will last longer than we need. Our idea is a building that be made locally and quickly, and then have a plan for when the life of the building is over." Future applications would include pop-up stores, festival "tents" and emergency shelters, says Benjamin, but there are greater hopes for the material within the industry. Stronger than concrete "I could imagine every structure you would built out of bricks", says Dirk Hebel, Assistant Professor of Architecture and Construction at the Future Cities Laboratory in Singapore. "No high-rises, but smaller scale structures and houses. The material is stronger than concrete, with better insulation capacities". The challenge will come in commercializing the products, Hebel feels. "There is huge demand for alternative materials. The question is how easy it is to penetrate the existing market. This needs time and a couple of buildings to show the possibilities". Stealing from nature Another, more radical approach takes the material from nature but also allows it to build the structure. Michael Pawlyn, director of Exploration Architecture, is a leading figure in biomimicry, having previously applied natural processes to create man-made forests in England and the Sahara Desert. His latest project to grow a "small venue for spoken word performances" from undersea biorock was recently unveiled at the Architecture Foundation in London. "In biology, complex structures achieve resource efficiency by putting things in exactly the right place, which is very difficult with made materials", says Pawlyn. "Our ways should deliver significant resource savings." Drawing on the natural accumulation of coral reefs, his team would install a steel frame in the deep ocean and leave it to attract material. Growth would be focused on specific areas of need using an electrical current. "We're interested in looking at its structural growth patterns. We have stress gauges on the structure to measure force in particular areas. If one is highly stressed, we can input more current so the rate of deposition matches the force." Pawlyn believes the structure could be built within two years, for consideration at scale. As with Ecovative, a key challenge ahead is to integrate still-living material to allow intelligent biosensors that respond to the building occupants. Innovators in this space acknowledge the ongoing barriers presented in an industry that has resisted modernization. But from rock to fungus, sand to space dust, the use of materials and processes designed by nature herself offer both a solution to the sustainability crisis, and a glimpse of our new built environment: clean, efficient, and alive. Read more from Make, Create, Innovate: Music 'hackers' unleash new generation of cool and bizarre instruments Forget wearable tech, embeddable implants are already here Feeling glum, happy, aroused? New technology can detect your mood  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/14/tech/innovation/carpenter-fingers-robohand-3-d/index.html	tech	Carpenter who cut off his fingers makes 'Robohand' with 3-D printer - CNN.com	2014/04/14	Monday Apr 14 05:43:02 EDT 2014	Vital Signs is a monthly program bringing viewers health stories from around the world. Gauteng, South Africa (CNN) -- "I was in a position to see exactly what happens in the human hand. I got the basics of what it's all about and thought yeah, I'll make my own." Richard van As is recalling the moment in May 2011 when he sat in a Johannesburg hospital waiting to hear if his fingers could be stitched back on. Just an hour earlier, he had been in his carpentry workshop sawing wood when the saw slipped and ripped diagonally through the four fingers on his right hand. "It all happened too quickly to know what actually happened," he remembers. Rather than fear the outcome, or dwell on the repercussions of losing his fingers, he was already thinking of ways to fix the problem, like a true carpenter. After days of scouring the Internet he couldn't find anywhere to buy a functional prosthetic finger and he was astonished at the cost of prosthetic hands and limbs which began in the tens of thousands of dollars. But his online surfing paid off as it brought him to an amateur video posted by a mechanical effects artist in Washington State, by the name of Ivan Owen. Together, the pair developed a mechanical finger for van As, but their partnership has also gone on to benefit countless hand and arm amputees around the globe, through the birth of the company "Robohand." Officially launched in January 2012, Robohand creates affordable mechanical prosthetics through the use of 3D printers. Not only that, but it has made its designs open source, so that anyone with access to such printers can print out fingers, hands and now arms as well. Printing prosthetics Using the process of additive manufacture, the specialized printers use the thermoplastic material Polylactide (PLA) to print body parts such as knuckles and joints, which when combined with stainless steel and aluminum produce a personalized prosthetic which customers can assemble and fit themselves courtesy of a free open-source manual available to them. "Within five minutes of getting it fitted, people can actually use it," explains Leonard Nel, the communications manager in the team. "It's anatomically driven by the wrist, elbow, or shoulder once fitted," he adds -- meaning its movements are controlled by the user. The first Robohand ever created was made for five-year-old Liam, from South Africa, who was born with amniotic band syndrome (ABS), which left him with no fingers on his right hand. Within minutes of fitting his newly printed mechanical hand Liam beamed excitedly and expressed how he could now "pick up stuff," describing its movement by saying: "it copies me." "They all have their special moment," says Nel. Read: 3-D printed arm gives hope to boy maimed by bomb Van As drives the whole process on simplicity, voicing his desire to remove unnecessary red tape and cost when providing people with something as essential as a limb. A full adult hand costs as little as $2,000, takes five and a half hours to print and approximately 10-15 hours to assemble. Ordering a prosthetic is also quite simple. Customers are sent measurement forms to complete and send those in combination with 3-D scans of their hands for translation into the software, which will print out the parts for their desired prosthetic. Where 3-D scans aren't feasible, hard molds can instead be made and shipped to the team in South Africa. The simplicity of the ordering process has led to demand outstripping what Robohand can supply, with requests for limbs coming from almost every country around the globe. There is now an eight-month waiting list when orders are placed. "I know of only three countries that haven't had a hand yet," says van As. "To make sure everyone can have access we essentially steal from the rich and give to the poor. Those who can afford it pay, and those that can't we find a way for someone to pay it for them." Because Robohand's manuals and 3-D printable files are available online, others are also using its designs to print prosthetics. "We stopped counting at 200 hands that were made back in November 2013," says van As. "But we can see there have now been over 143,000 downloads of the software. People all over the world are doing this without us. We don't even know of them all." Paying it forward The majority of its customers are in the United States, where most customers can afford its relatively low prices, so van As is able to subsidize prosthetics for those who are more disadvantaged. "We had Dylan Laas in L.A. who received a Robohand and when his dad saw the impact he paid for Waldo, another person on our waiting list, to receive one as well," says van As. Waldo was also born with ABS, like Liam, leaving him no fingers on his right hand, and van As was able to fit him with a working hand too. "It's all about paying it forward as people want to help," says van As. Robohand is growing and the team plans on expanding past the fingers and arms currently on offer. "Our next step is to print whole legs for people to use and walk on," explains van As. But it doesn't stop there. "Then if we make that work, the goal is entire exoskeletons, for paraplegics to be able to walk again." Read: Robot exoskeleton lets girl lift her arms Read: Lungs on a chip and 3-D printed hearts  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/12/health/weight-loss-irpt-jonathon-walters/index.html	health	Weight loss success: 200 pounds down in 9 months - CNN.com	2014/05/12	Monday May 12 07:32:10 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Do you have a weight-loss success story to share? Tell us how you did it and you could be featured in our weekly weight-loss story on CNN.com. (CNN) -- Jonathon Walters didn't know where to begin. He just knew he had to start somewhere, or he wouldn't be alive for much longer. His weight had caused him problems for years. In high school, he was wearing size 50 pants. As a junior, sick of the bullies and comments from teachers, Walters went to his father and told him he was dropping out of school. He recalls his dad saying, "John, quitting is unlike anything else in life. It is only hard the first time you do it. After that it is habit and almost impossible to break." His dad was right. Walters received his high school diploma through home schooling in 2006. But in the years that followed, he quit college and multiple jobs. Now, though, the comic book colorist from Benton, Illinois, is finally sticking with something. His father's death motivated him to lose 200 pounds in the last nine months, and he says he isn't looking back. 'My world had collapsed' On May 6, 2013, Walters received devastating news: His father had died from a heart attack. He was 53. According to Walters, his father wasn't overweight or really out of shape, so his death was unexpected. "My world had collapsed," Walters said. Walters was despondent. He left his job as a telecommunications sales rep and didn't speak to practically anyone besides his wife and three young boys. Already heavy, Walters began packing on more weight in the weeks after his father died. He ate to numb the pain he felt, every night feeling the crushing weight laying heavy on his chest. "At first I played the role of the victim and slowly let my obsession with food consume me," he said. But then he had a realization about his father's death. It hit him that he too would "eventually run out of tomorrows." On July 18, he woke up and decided he had had enough. He was done. "I was done being a burden to my family. I was done feeling pain every second of every day. I was done being stared at in grocery stores. I was done being the regular customer at fast food restaurants. I was done being the unhealthy version of me. "I was done quitting everything I started. I was going to not only lose the weight, I was going to obliterate it. I was going to stop giving up. I quit quitting." Facing reality Walters made a doctor's appointment for the next day. He had no idea how he would do it, but he was determined to lose weight without surgery and knew he needed help. At the doctor's office, he had to sit in the bench-style chairs because he was too large to fit in the regular seats. Facing reality was hard. He weighed 477 pounds, had high blood pressure and high cholesterol, as well as a severe fatty liver. He left the doctor's office and started exercising the next day. "I could barely walk without getting winded. After every time I went walking, I could feel pain in my legs and feet. It hurt so bad to keep going, but I knew it was temporary and giving up was permanent." Walters would walk a quarter mile, then rest for 5 minutes. Slowly, he worked himself up to greater distances. Soon, he was up to 3 miles a day and was down 50 pounds. A few months later, he started running. Walters now runs 10 miles a day, lifts weights and works out on machines at the gym. He has completely changed his diet, lowering his carbohydrate intake, eating more vegetables and fruits, and increasing his protein consumption. He also cut out fried foods and soda. The 6'3" man currently weighs 270 pounds. He still wants to lose an additional 30 to 40 pounds, but at a much slower pace through weightlifting. He started a Facebook page to hold himself accountable and is inspired by all the messages he gets each day. Terri Hartman, a nurse practitioner who worked with Walters early on in his diet, said she's thrilled with his progress. Besides changing his own life, she's seen his lifestyle changes inspire others, including his two sisters, to become healthy. Walters has found new strength and willpower, Hartman says -- something that will aid him the rest of his life. This time, Walters is determined not to quit.   "It isn't about me anymore. My mission is to bring motivation to the masses and show them it doesn't take any surgeries, pills or other products," Walters said. "I have three boys and a wife that count on me daily. ... Imagining my sons and wife without me, makes every ounce of effort I put in worth it." He lost 125 pounds, but still felt fat Random online match helps man lose nearly 400 pounds  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/05/health/weight-loss-janetzko/index.html	health	He lost 125 pounds, but still felt fat - CNN.com	2014/05/05	Monday May 5 09:20:46 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Do you have a weight-loss success story to share? Tell us how you did it and you could be featured in our weekly weight-loss story on CNN.com. (CNN) -- If you're overweight, slimming down will make you feel great, right? For John Janetzko, embracing his own body took more than just weight loss. The 24-year-old chemistry Ph.D. candidate at Harvard is just under 6 feet tall, and struggled with his body image for years. Even after losing 125 pounds, he still felt fat, and pushed himself in unhealthy ways in terms of diet and fitness. These days, at a lean 165 pounds, Janetzko feels more confident and generally better about himself. "I feel more generically attractive in terms of what society's views are," he said. "But I guess I also feel like that was something I thought would be very quick, and would sort of happen right away." Getting motivated In childhood, Janetzko heard from his pediatrician that his weight wasn't healthy so many times that he became desensitized to it. But as his father remembers it, he wasn't ever really fat. Intense studying and bad eating habits piled on pounds during college. By the fall of junior year, Janetzko weighed about 290 pounds. "I would always be sort of afraid of how I thought people would think of me," he said. "I always expected my girlfriend at the time would find someone better." The first stage of Janetzko's weight loss came when he lived at home in Toronto during college. A friend encouraged Janetzko to go to the gym with him, even offering to buy him running shoes. Janetzko started going to the gym often, focusing on jogging and light weights. Instead of greasy takeout meals from food stands, Janetzko started picking up leaner options such as grilled chicken and broccoli, and cooked more on weekends. His father helped cook when Janetzko was busy. "I started with the idea that being very strict with my diet was the solution," he said. During his senior year, with graduate school applications and his father becoming ill, Janetzko slipped, forgoing the gym because there weren't enough hours in the day. His weight fluctuated, never quite bouncing back as high as it was, but still reversing some of the progress he had made. The move from Toronto to Cambridge, Massachusetts, and a breakup from a long relationship also distracted him from healthy eating. He was about 240 pounds when he entered Harvard. Graduate school jump-started his motivation again. He told himself: "I've had so many changes, and it's really time to have an absolute fresh start." How he did it During the summer of 2011, Janetzko went to the gym consistently and cooked at least four nights a week. He had in his head a "running clock" of calorie and protein limits for meal times, aiming for about 2,000 calories a day. Breakfast was usually a protein shake. Lunch would be salad, sandwich or burrito. Dinner would be around 1,000 calories. By the end of autumn of his first year at Harvard, he was closer to 200 pounds. On a visit home to Toronto, he ran his first 5K race, which motivated him to keep working on his fitness. Janetzko also encouraged his roommates to go with him to exercise, and helped friends with their workouts and stretches. "I guess that was a point where I was sort of feeling happy," he said. Focused on fitness, he competed in volleyball leagues, swam, and played squash and soccer. By mid-2012, he was down to 170 pounds. Losing those last 60 to 70 pounds in Massachusetts brought about the most substantial physical changes in his fitness journey. "I said, 'What happened to you? Are they not feeding you?' " his father, Rainer Janetzko, remembers telling his son when he first visited after the weight loss. Generally, though, Janetzko's new physique looks good, his father said. "Now when he puts a suit on, he looks better." Going too far Slim and athletic as he was, Janetzko still didn't feel good about how he looked in May 2012. It was an awkward time he calls the "transition" -- when he had lost a lot of weight, but his new body didn't register in his mind as a positive image. "I would wake up in the morning, look in the mirror and feel like 'Oh God, I'm fat and ugly and this is terrible,' " he said. At the same time, others told him he had gotten too skinny and didn't need to get thinner. Objectively, he had reached his goal -- but he couldn't see that in his reflection. He thought his mirror image still needed to lose 10 or 20 more pounds. Focused on weight loss and fitness, Janetzko didn't pay close attention to his body's signals that it was being pushed too hard. As he ate less and started running farther and faster, Janetzko noticed he would start to get dizzy or even fall. Last semester he collapsed outside of a laboratory. "That was a scary time for a lot of people -- my lab mates, my advisor and myself included," he said. "If you don't balance your diet properly (you) can't go and work yourself really hard." His aversion to overeating had gone too far -- his appetite for some foods had diminished. Friends even wondered if he had an eating disorder. "There were days when I could barely finish half a sandwich," he said. "I felt full but I clearly had not taken in all of the calories I need as a functioning person." He has since gone to nutritionists for help. He isn't as rigid about what he eats anymore, and is more flexible about his workouts. He still minimizes fried foods but tries to be more varied with meals. The Cut: What no one tells you about losing lots of weight Embracing a new self Body image disturbance isn't unusual when people lose weight, said Emily Sandoz, assistant professor of psychology at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. Often people have huge expectations about the life changes that will result from a weight loss that don't actually happen. "Their experience of themselves as fat extends far beyond their actual body," she said. "People have to learn how to be in their skin in a new way." Sandoz's approach to helping people with body image problems is to shift the focus to other areas of their lives that they care about, such as work or parenting. Mindfulness -- the idea of being present and in the moment -- is incorporated in her approach to helping clients be more accepting of their bodies. Can mindfulness help manage pain and mental illness? Over time, Janetzko has been able to reconcile his weight with his body image -- but there was no one moment where it suddenly clicked. Positive reinforcement from others and self-assurance have helped him feel better about himself. His message to others Many of Janetzko's old friends who see his recent photos on Facebook have contacted him to ask: "How did you do it?" Janetzko's bottom line is that he was intensely motivated. "If you count your calories and you're like, 'I want to lose weight,' you're going to be stuck in that forever," he said. "But I think if you can make changes in your lifestyle that you actually want to be doing, and then you'll do those no matter what -- you enjoy them -- then you never have to feel like you're trapped in a routine."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/health/weight-loss-morgan-victoria/index.html	health	Weight loss success: 'All you have to do is care' - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 07:17:06 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Do you have a weight-loss success story to share? Tell us how you did it and you could be featured in our weekly weight-loss story on CNN.com. (CNN) -- At the last minute, Morgan Victoria's friend convinced her to attend their 10-year high school reunion. Victoria hadn't had any intention of going to "such a silly thing," but her friend's significant other couldn't make it and, well, peer pressure doesn't end at 18. Victoria balked as the former class president handed her a name tag. On it was Victoria's senior photo. Walking around the event, something inside of her snapped. "I'm wearing a picture of me 10 years younger and 100 pounds lighter," Victoria remembers. "It was humiliating." "The next day I was like, 'That's it.' " At the August 2012 reunion, Victoria weighed 255 pounds and wore a size 18 dress. Over the next nine months, she lost more than 100 pounds by moving more and eating less. "There is no secret," Victoria says about weight loss. "All you have to do is care. If you honestly care about yourself, if you honestly care about getting it done -- that's all you have to do." Victoria didn't grow up overweight, though she sometimes felt like it in her athletic family. Her parents cooked healthy meals around the house, and Victoria swam, played tennis and ran cross country until she left for college. At the Savannah College of Art and Design in Georgia, where she majored in communication arts (otherwise known as comic books and poetry, she jokes), she ate whatever she wanted. That included plenty of junk food. "You eat the cheap stuff," Victoria remembers. "It wasn't like I was getting home from the studio and being like, 'I need some lean protein and vegetables.' " When she graduated and struggled to find work, she ate even worse. Though she lived in Savannah, Georgia, a walking city, she never went to the gym and couldn't combat the excess calories she was consuming. At 5' 8", her body mass index was 38. (Over 30 is considered obese.) In 2011, Victoria married Lyndsay Rosenlund in a small private ceremony with family and friends in Washington state. The couple moved to Atlanta and started going out for dinner frequently with friends. But the day after her high school reunion, Victoria went into the pantry of their home and got rid of anything with more than a few ingredients on the label. She read about serving sizes and started using an app to count calories. She even bought a food scale. "Honestly, all of it was kind of hard," Victoria says. "At 255 pounds, you don't actually want to do anything. ... Exercising was hard because I was embarrassed. Nobody wants to be the fat girl working out." So she stayed out of the gym, and started walking with Rosenlund and their dogs, Giuseppe and Romona. She walked for about an hour every morning and an hour every night. Eventually she gained enough confidence to jog. Now she runs 5Ks. "We tried running together when we first started our journey, but it turns out I hate running," Rosenlund says. "However, we both enjoy hiking so we try and hike every chance we get." The couple also tried to limit how often they ate out. When they did go to a restaurant, they made a game plan and made smarter choices. Water instead of beer. Balsamic vinaigrette instead of ranch dressing. Victoria swears she never goes hungry. She relies on big salads, air-popped corn and lean protein to keep her full without a lot of calories. With these simple strategies, she lost about 2 pounds a week. Rosenlund also lost 50 pounds. Victoria now wears a size 6 and has maintained her final weight of 150 pounds for nearly a year. "Morgan has a lot more energy and less anxiety," Rosenlund says. "I think that the weight loss has definitely improved her outlook on life." "I feel amazing," Victoria agrees. "You feel totally different about yourself. You shouldn't feel all that from weight, but you do."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/17/health/hrw-children-tobacco-workers-report/index.html	health	Kids working on tobacco farms experience nicotine poisoning - CNN.com	2014/05/17	Saturday May 17 07:21:21 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Jessica Rodriguez was 11 years old when she first stepped onto a tobacco field in Snow Hill, North Carolina. She spent the next five summers working on a neighbor's tobacco farm, usually six days a week. "It was hard. It was definitely hard," she remembers. "We had a good boss lady -- she bought us lunch every day. But remember, you're sitting there eating lunch with tobacco gum all over your hands." Rodriguez had a lot to do, including hand-pulling tobacco and panning it with a harvester. She and the other children on the farm worked from 6 or 7 in the morning to 7 or 8 at night. "I got heat exhaustion -- vomiting, feel like my stomach was trying to come out of my body," she said. "They would bring me water and saltine crackers to settle my stomach until I got better and then back to work." It may not have been easy, she says, but the pay was was good. She earned anywhere from $100 to $150 a day; the money was given directly to her parents. Rodriguez's story has played out time and again on tobacco fields across the country for decades. A report published this week from Human Rights Watch details the dangers child workers face on America's tobacco farms. Report slams child labor in tobacco fields Called "Tobacco's Hidden Children: Hazardous Child Labor in US Tobacco Farming," the report documents conditions on farms in North Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky and Virginia. Ninety percent of all tobacco grown in this country comes from those four states. The researchers interviewed 141 child tobacco workers between the ages of 7 and 17 for the report. Nearly 75% reported a range of devastating symptoms, including vomiting, nausea, headache, dizziness, skin rashes and burning eyes. Many of the symptoms are consistent with acute nicotine poisoning, said Margaret Wurth, a children's rights researcher at Human Rights Watch and co-author of the report. It's often called green tobacco sickness, or GTS. GTS can happen when nicotine is absorbed through skin while handling tobacco plants. "About half the kids we interviewed said they saw tractors come through fields where they were working, or nearby fields, spraying pesticides," Wurth said. "And the children said they could smell and taste and feel the chemical spray as it drifted toward them." And nicotine is not the only danger. There were more than 1,800 non-fatal injuries to kids under 18 that worked on farms in 2012, according to the Human Rights Watch report. Two-thirds of the children who died from occupational injuries that year were agricultural workers. "We found that kids are working 10 or 12, sometimes 14-hour days in extreme heat," Wurth said. "They often have no place to go to the bathroom, no place to wash their hands at work and many of them are given no safety training, no health education and no protective equipment." The researchers found kids using sharp tools, such as axes or machetes, to dig up weeds and/or harvest tobacco. Some kids worked near dangerous machinery. Others climbed up into the rafters of barns, more than one story off the ground, to hang tobacco to dry without any kind of safety gear. The Human Rights Watch estimates several hundred thousand kids work in agriculture in the United States each year, but there are no hard numbers on just how many are working on tobacco farms, and no number to adequately portray the scope of the problem. Most, Wurth says, are the children of Hispanic immigrants. U.S. labor laws, she says, do not protect these kids. According to the report: -- Children as young as 12 can work unlimited hours on any size farm as long as they have a parent's permission. -- Children of any age can work in any job on a farm owned by their parents. -- There is no minimum age for children to work on small farms. -- At 16, children working on farms can do jobs considered hazardous by the Department of Labor. Children working outside agriculture must be at least 18 to do hazardous work. The Federal Youth Employment Laws in Farm Jobs, while setting standards for youth employment in agriculture, does not specifically address tobacco farms. But the Department of Labor released a statement addressing the Human Rights Watch report: "Our job at the Department of Labor is to ensure that agricultural employers keep their workers, regardless of age, safe on the job, housed in safe and sanitary residential facilities, and pay them their legally-required wages," the government agency said. "The Department especially takes seriously its role in ensuring that employers operate in compliance with all appropriate laws and rules with respect to young workers." Several "young workers" who spoke to CNN said a tobacco farm is not an appropriate place for a child. Mildre Lima, now 19, started working in the tobacco fields when she was 12. She came to Saratoga, North Carolina, from Florida with her parents, three brothers and her grandmother. They all harvested tobacco, receiving $7.25 an hour. It wasn't long before Lima started getting sick. Rashes turned her skin a dark color and caused it to peel off in patches. But that was just the beginning. The adults she worked with were mean to her, she says, and when she was 14 she was sexually harassed. "When (my mom) confronted the supervisor he fired us. He fired my mom, me and my grandmother." When she looks back on those years, Lima says no child should ever have to go through what she did. Her dad still works the tobacco fields, but last year was Lima's last. She is done. For most of these kids, the money -- the ability to help their families financially -- is the draw. Erick Garcia, 17, is one. He was 11 when he started harvesting tobacco in Kinston, North Carolina, with his parents and two older siblings. The teen says he worked from 7 a.m. to sundown with no breaks besides a lunch hour. Though he doesn't want to, Garcia plans to work the tobacco fields again this summer. "When you are surrounded by plants that are taller than you, you feel like you are suffocating," he says. But there are "no other options to do another job, a better job, that is not dangerous and hard." Jessica Rodriguez returned to the fields last summer when her other company cut her hours, and she was three to four months behind on every bill. Her sons Brandon, 15, and Fernando, 13, spent the summer in the tobacco fields for the first time alongside her. Both boys have medical issues: Brandon has asthma and ADHD; Fernando has a tumor on the bottom of his brain stem. Rodriguez is worried about their well-being in the fields. Still, her boys want the financial freedom of having their own money. Rodriguez herself is back to working full time elsewhere, and says she'll work with her sons in the fields this summer on her days off. But if Human Rights Watch has any say in the matter, children will not be allowed on tobacco farms at all. "We've concluded that any tasks where kids come into direct contact with tobacco plants or dried tobacco leaves pose hazards to their health," Wurth said. "We want companies to make clear that kids cannot work in jobs where they are exposed to these dangers and then to communicate this to the growers and their supply chains to make sure the growers know these rules and follow them." Human Rights Watch shared its report with 10 companies that buy tobacco grown in the United States. "Nine of the 10 companies responded and all are concerned about child labor, but none of them have policies that specifically protect children from the hazards we identified in our research," Wurth said. Jeff Caldwell, a spokesman for Altria Group, one of the largest tobacco companies in the country, told CNN the company doesn't employ its own farmers, and has strict standards for contractors it buys tobacco from. Altria Group is the parent of Philip Morris USA, which makes about half of all cigarettes sold in the United States. "Our tobacco companies do not condone the unlawful employment or exploitation of farm workers, especially those under the age of 18," Caldwell said. He said U.S. tobacco companies will work together on the issues outlined in the report. To Wurth, the solution is more complicated. "We can't let this be the only option for these families," she said. "We can't say these families are living in poverty, therefore it's OK ... We have to make sure that there are better opportunities for these kids, and that they're not forced to do this kind of work that makes them sick." CNN's Mariano Castillo contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/10/health/kovac-imperfect-moms/index.html	health	Memo to imperfect moms - CNN.com	2014/05/10	Saturday May 10 03:57:02 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Sarah Kovac was born with a rare disorder involving multiple joint deformities. In a 2010 iReport story, she shared learning to diaper her son with her feet. She is a motivational speaker and author of the book "In Capable Arms: Living a Life Embraced by Grace." (CNN) -- It was one of those days when I would have given anything to be someone else. We were at the park and I watched my 3-year-old son climb the slide's ladder. He crossed the balance beam and conquered the climbing wall, and I just stood there, trying to tell my fears to shut up. I knew that, if he were to fall, these arms could not catch him. I could only kiss away the tears I failed to save him from. I am a mother with upper limb differences, and this swallowing of fear is a daily effort on my part, since I've always felt a little less capable as a human being, and especially now as a mother. I was born with a disability called arthrogryposis multiplex congenita (AMC), and it left my arms weak, shorter than average and stiff. This makes the most mundane tasks quite difficult sometimes, but I'm so grateful that AMC also left my hands hooked under -- it's with these "hooks" I am able to carry my children, at least for a few seconds here and there. As I watch my little boy flit from one obstacle to another, I remember the summer before I started kindergarten. I was playing at the park while my own mother watched from the shade. I didn't dare tackle the very tall slide, as ladders always scared me. I couldn't properly grip the rungs, and even at that young age, I understood that I had limits. Instead, I climbed the wide steps of the elephant-shaped slide, which was probably intended for children much younger than me. I reached the top and shoved off. From the first moment of my descent, I began to lose control. My body had turned sideways by the time I reached the bottom, and I fell onto the concrete landing, left arm first. The thing about arms affected by AMC is that they don't bend. They just break. My mom rushed me to the hospital for this, the first of the seven arm breaks of my childhood. Naturally, even now as an adult, I find it difficult to watch my son take physical risks without feeling a surge of panic. Without remembering the crunch of snapping bone. He, however, seems to live for anything that would terrify me. Often I force myself to turn away so he can earn his boyhood scrapes without this nervous mom swooping in. For disabled parents, challenges are bonding point For many things, I have to use my feet. I have to admit that toes are poor substitutes for fingers, and for every obstacle I've overcome, there are 10 that I haven't. Despite that, I drive a car. I change diapers. I've published a book and am a freelance journalist -- every word typed by toe. I travel all over the country to speak to schools, women's groups, churches. But the truth is, as my son laid on my chest moments after birth, I didn't know how I would manage to hold him. I didn't know how I'd work a car seat. I'd changed exactly one diaper, years before, and I'd never held an infant. I was in over my head. But my son and I adapted to each other quickly, so that within two weeks my husband went back to work and I was able to care for my new baby -- not without difficulty, but without help. Luckily, newborns are extremely patient (read: they can't move), so I was able to work on those things that were difficult, and take my time until it became a little more natural for me. But really, most of what I do throughout the day is struggle. I am in such awe as I watch how easily other moms pick up their toddlers. How easily someone turns the page of a book. How quickly other writers can type. Wow. What would that be like? Struggle has been the great theme of my 30 years. And for most of those years, I hated it. I would have given anything to be normal -- to be anyone other than me. I wanted to blend in. Who doesn't? I can't tell you the number of times I thought, whispered, growled under my breath, "WHY does everything have to be so freaking difficult for me?" After attempting to open a window. To button my pants. To strain pasta. But as I've become an adult, as I worked through so much pain in writing my memoir, I began to see that Struggle is not my enemy. In fact, I can thank Struggle for developing in me many of the traits I like most about myself. And Struggle in my life gives me the ability to teach my kids resilience. Empathy. Determination. Hope. So many intangibles that a perfect mom would not be able to model for her children. Because I'm flawed, I can perfectly prepare my kids to deal with the imperfect boss, the imperfect spouse, the imperfect child. Because I am weak, my children can see how little weakness can do to hold us back from living a life filled with purpose. Because I struggle in front of them daily, my children will inherently know not to run from the difficult things in life, because they see Struggle create in me such gratitude and joy over even the smallest blessings. My children have been dealt an awesome hand. The intrepid: What it's like to be a blind parent It's Mother's Day, and you might be an imperfect mom. Don't be afraid! Don't wish you were someone else. You're the mom your kids need most. You're the ideal person to prepare your children to thrive in this often less-than-ideal world. I've heard it said that your greatest strength is also your greatest weakness. But it could be that your greatest weakness is your greatest strength -- as a parent, as a person. Love an imperfect mom today, especially if that mom is you.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/16/health/fit-nation-connie-strength/index.html	health	With health, not being perfect is OK - CNN.com	2014/05/16	Friday May 16 07:15:15 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Connie Sievers is one of six CNN viewers selected to be a part of the Fit Nation Triathlon Challenge program. Follow the "Sassy Six" on Twitter and Facebook as they train to race the Nautica Malibu Triathlon with Dr. Sanjay Gupta on September 14. (CNN) -- I am 52 years old. I was not overweight for the first 32 years of my life. Then the emotional stress of losing my daughter to leukemia caused me to gain 70 pounds. Over the last 20 years, I have attempted to lose that weight many times, always with the notion that this time I would be perfect. It was all or nothing. When I couldn't maintain perfection, I stopped trying. I felt bad about myself, which led to increased emotional eating and less exercise. It was a vicious cycle. This journey is different. I do not consider this an attempt to lose weight but rather to improve my health and become stronger. This journey is about making lasting changes and understanding that I do not need to be perfect to make those changes. It's about learning to be nice to myself instead of feeling bad when I do not make the best choice. Weight loss surgery isn't a golden ticket In my earlier attempts, my only goal was to lose weight. I would start by doing hours and hours of cardio each week. I would follow the prescribed diet perfectly. I always had fantastic results in the first few weeks, but eventually, the weight loss would begin to slow. I stopped exercising as often, and I started to eat foods not on the prescribed diet plan. This was referred to as "cheating," which only made me feel worse about myself. Being told that I was "cheating" was not helpful; it just reinforced that all or nothing mentality. So I would eat tons of junk during the first few days of the week and then extremely limit my caloric intake in the days before a weigh-in. I wouldn't drink water on the day of weigh-in so the number on the scale would go down. If I knew I had gained weight that week, I would just skip the meeting. This journey is different. To have lasting success I must focus on total health. My previous weight loss attempts were sprints. This is a marathon (well, really it's a triathlon!), making lasting changes over the rest of my life. Beating myself up over a bad choice does not need to happen, because making better choices most of the time is what matters. 4 training tips for new triathletes Better nutritional choices are a part of my journey. I ran across a quote not long ago that said, "Every time we eat, we are either fighting disease or feeding it." As I choose what to eat, I try to reflect upon that quote. I eat more vegetables, include protein at each meal, and have cut out some of the sugar and non-whole-grain carbs. All of my food choices are not perfect, and that is OK. It is not all or nothing! Exercise, specifically training for the Nautica Malibu Triathlon, is also a part of my journey. Now when I exercise, I am thinking about how I am increasing my athletic ability, endurance and strength. I am not thinking about how this exercise is helping me lose weight, or how many calories I am burning. My form or pace is not perfect, and that is OK. Our assigned strength training is different than anything I have done before. Some exercises were almost impossible when I first started and remain challenging. I still do not do them with the perfect grace of people in the YouTube videos, and that is OK. In fact, Coach April tells us that once a strength exercise becomes easy, it is time to add something new. That "new" may include doing it on top of a Bosu ball, doing it on one leg, getting lower, increasing reps, etc. There is always a next challenge. My new energy, endurance, balance, strength and athletic ability will help me as I get older. My body aches are gone, and the motivation to keep moving comes from the knowledge that I can do so much more now than when I started a few months ago. The crew at CNN Fit Nation constantly remind us to "keep moving forward." That's what I intend to do. Visualizing my way to the finish line  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/09/health/fit-nation-triathlon-training-tips/index.html	health	4 training tips for new triathletes - CNN.com	2014/05/09	Friday May 9 07:12:50 EDT 2014	Editor's note: April Gellatly is the head coach for CNN's Fit Nation Triathlon Challenge program and owner of AG Multisport Consulting. Follow the "Sassy Six" on Twitter and Facebook as they train to race the Nautica Malibu Triathlon on September 14. (CNN) -- It's hard to know where to begin when you start a new sport -- and in the case of triathlon, you're starting three. The good news is that, more than likely, not all of these are completely new to you. It may have been many years since you have swam, biked or ran, but that doesn't change the nature of each activity. There's a reason they say, "It's just like riding a bike." With these tips, we'll have you racing toward the finish line in no time. Start within your comfort zone  The goal of most individuals starting a triathlon-training program is improved fitness. But your fitness level will only improve through consistent training. Starting within your comfort zone will allow you to find the joy in triathlon. If you enjoy it, you will keep at it. Are you more comfortable running than swimming? Are you better at biking than jogging? Pick the sport that suits you best to start. For the first two to three months of training, the CNN Fit Nation Sassy Six did more fitness-oriented training than triathlon-specific training. During this time, I allowed them to choose one or two of their cardio sessions each week. It wasn't important to me that they were doing a specific exercise, but simply that they were exercising. Focus on getting fit before you tackle a new sport. You have more to lose than pounds With cycling, safety comes first The Sassy Six has a rule: Never touch your bike without your helmet on. If you are new to cycling, I recommend you become a student of the sport. We take a risk every time we go out on our bikes, especially when riding with automotive traffic. The best place to start is by asking a lot of questions at your local bike shop. These guys will have knowledge of how your bike works -- shifting, braking, clipping in/out, etc. They will also likely have knowledge of safe places to ride locally. The first time you head out to ride, I recommend going to a large empty parking lot. Pedestrian traffic can be just as dangerous for new cyclists because they are unfamiliar with basic bike skills such as braking and turning. Remember, the hybrid or mountain bike you rode as a kid is a lot different than the road bike you're on now. It will take some getting used to. 5 rules for new triathletes Swimming should be a key part of your training Whether you are comfortable in the water or not, swimming should be an important part of your training program. This non-weight-bearing, aerobic exercise is going to help you get fit without as much wear and tear on your body as cycling or running. We had the Sassy Six in the water every day during Kick-Off Weekend, and now have them swimming two to three days a week leading up to the Nautica Malibu Triathlon. After all, we are preparing them to swim in the Pacific Ocean, which is no small feat. I taught them a series of drills that encourage proper body position and breathing. Learning to swim properly first will save you a lot of wasted effort in the long run (or swim). If you don't have a fitness swimming background, take a few lessons or join a group like U.S. Masters Swimming. Set goals and follow a program Setting S.M.A.R.T. mini goals will provide direction to your training and keep you moving forward. These goals can be anything from working out three days a week for a month to finishing a sprint triathlon in 12 weeks. Following a training program will help you reach your goals and encourage balance in your training. This balance will ensure that you go into your event prepared and help prevent injury. With the Sassy Six, we set the goal: The Nautica Malibu Classic Distance Triathlon. They knew when they applied for the CNN Fit Nation Program that we would be preparing them for this event. We provide a training program, which includes daily training instructions, and most of their equipment. So in less than five months, they'll be ready! How about you? From a minute to a mile: Learning to run  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/02/health/fit-nation-jamil-then-now/index.html	health	Visualizing my way to the finish line - CNN.com	2014/05/02	Friday May 2 08:28:10 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Jamil Nathoo is one of six CNN viewers selected to be a part of the Fit Nation Triathlon Challenge program. Follow the "Sassy Six" on Twitter and Facebook as they train to race the Nautica Malibu Triathlon with Dr. Sanjay Gupta on September 14. (CNN) -- Cue the music. The trumpets start in my head. Every workout turns into my very own "Rocky" movie. Naturally, I'm Rocky Balboa. Except, lucky for me, I'm not facing Clubber Lang (aka Mr. T) in the ring anytime soon. Instead I have my own score to settle -- with cancer. My opponent is the Nautica Malibu Triathlon. Fight night is September 14, 2014. "Gonna Fly Now" is the theme song from "Rocky." The song is synonymous with being the underdog who ultimately triumphs. Currently, I'm the underdog. But victory will come. See, I'm starting from zero. Testicular cancer stripped me of my good health; now, I'm taking it back. I visualize when I work out. I have to. Visualization gives me strength and inspires me. Even if the story is fiction, I grew up on these movies, and what they represent is far more important: hope. The music kicks in like a shot of adrenaline and pushes me to train harder. I'm trying to push my body back to a place it once was. There is a scene in "Rocky III" that I often replay in my head. Rocky and Apollo are dressed in their ridiculously short shorts and long socks (it was the early '80s, after all), and they're running on the beach when Rocky gives up. Making time for your health Rocky later admits he's scared. For this first time in his life, Rocky Balboa is scared. Unfortunately, I can't pretend that I've never been scared before; instead I have to admit that I still am. But this fear is different. It's the fear of the unknown. I'm treading in uncharted waters. And although I can see the light at the end of the tunnel, the pathway is dark. Exercise isn't new to me. It's something I used to thrive on. Training for a triathlon isn't even new to me. I had a regimen before. I'd swim in the mornings before work. Saturdays were my big workout days. If I wasn't doing a big run or ride, I'd take a spin class and jump right on the treadmill after and run 4 miles. Interestingly enough, that doesn't make it any easier. It's often more frustrating. Not being able to do what you used to do sometimes makes you not want to do it at all. It's a constant fight I have with myself. Trying to push through one barrier only to be stopped at the next makes me feel helpless. But failure isn't an option. I've been there before, so I have to believe I can do it again. I know I'll get there, I just don't know how. So I keep pushing on. I continue to visualize. Last Friday, I ran my first consecutive mile since my second surgery. It was a huge milestone for me, and I celebrated with my hands in the air while on a treadmill at the gym. Most onlookers laughed and probably assumed I was a bit crazy. But to me it was a big deal. From a minute to a mile: Learning to run  I have come so far, but this milestone was also a reminder of what I have in front of me, and how far I really have to go. I take a break from my visualizations to remember those who have come before me. What other cancer survivors have done humbles me. Like Rocky, they had to dig deep down inside of themselves and reach for more. Their perseverance also gives me inspiration. I've often heard it's how we face adversity that defines our character. If that's the case, this is my defining moment. I come back to "Rocky III" in my head. I can hear Apollo Creed: "To get it back, you have to go back to the beginning, Rock. .... Eye of the tiger." Patience is a virtue I'm still learning. The music fades. I am too young not to run  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/health/julie-roberts-human-factor/index.html	health	Living with MS, 'I do not have to give up on my dreams' - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 08:02:23 EDT 2014	Editor's note: In the Human Factor, we profile survivors who have overcome the odds. Confronting a life obstacle -- injury, illness or other hardship -- they tapped their inner strength and found resilience they didn't know they possessed. May 28 marks the 5th World MS Day, bringing attention to a condition that affects more than 2.3 million living with multiple sclerosis. Country music singer Julie Roberts is one of those people living with MS, but not letting it get in the way of her life. (CNN) -- Accepting my diagnosis of multiple sclerosis was probably the most difficult part of my MS journey. However, it also helped me retake control of my life. For years, I was in denial that I had MS. I thought if I didn't focus on my MS, then maybe it would just go away. It took the Nashville flood in May 2010 for me to "wake up" and decide it was time to take responsibility for what is, and what will be, my life with MS. My Mom, my sister and I lost our home and almost everything we owned in the flood. When we were rescued by boat, we were given another chance at life. I realized then that things can be replaced, but life and good health are invaluable. The stress from the flood brought on a relapse of my MS, which I could no longer ignore. At that point, I decided to accept that MS is part of who I am, and that I needed to learn how to manage it in order to continue living my dreams. I believe it was God who gave me another chance at life with the flood rescue and I wasn't going to waste it. I was determined to show this disease who was boss and that I would not let MS define my life's journey! I wanted to show the world that MS looks different for everyone and that MS does not mean you have to give up on your dreams. A diagnosis with any disease can be overwhelming, scary and confusing. Before, I, too, was scared and worried about how the world and the music industry would look at me if they knew I had MS. Would they judge me and stop booking me to sing places? Would I be able to continue playing shows? Would the dreams I'd been working toward my entire life be taken from me? If so, what else would I do? I can't say life is a piece of cake. Occasionally I still get asked whether my MS will interfere with my professional or personal life, but I respond every day by doing what I love. Can I continue to play my shows? Ask my fans who are there with me when I'm on tour around the world or playing a local nightspot. Can I write my songs? Listen to my current CD. Can I live a full and happy life? Come see the home I rebuilt after the flood. This doesn't mean I live my life in a haphazard way without a plan. I have developed a strong network of support, starting with my family. After hearing some positive things about my local MS Society chapter, I also reached out to it for information and found a mentor who has grown into a lifelong friend. I've learned to manage my MS by keeping all my options open. I have a neurologist who helps me control my MS with a disease-modifying therapy and address any symptoms that may appear. I am also much more than my MS and I manage my life through diet, exercise and my faith. I have learned that I do not have to give up on my dreams. I do still have the challenge of educating those within my professional field that MS won't stand in the way of performing concerts or being with my fans. It's a challenge I face head-on every day. I will continue to stand up for myself and those with MS and show the world that as people living with MS we can still do what we want to do.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/health/diet-soda-weight-loss/index.html	health	Diet soda helps weight loss, industry-funded study finds - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 12:10:12 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Most people choose artificially-sweetened soda over regular soda to avoid packing on extra pounds. But what if you already choose diet? Would it be helpful to quit that too? Dr. Jim Hill says he gets this question all the time from patients in his weight loss program at the University of Colorado's Anschutz Health and Wellness Center. With funding from the American Beverage Association, Hill helped design a study that divided approximately 300 adults into two groups: One group would continue drinking diet, and the other group -- referred to in the study as the "water group" -- would go cold turkey. The study was published in the journal Obesity. Both participant groups received intensive coaching on successful techniques for weight loss, including regular feedback on the meals they logged in journals. Participants weighed, on average, just over 200 pounds at the start of the study. "The results, to us, were not at all surprising," says Hill. While the typical participant banned from drinking diet sodas lost 9 pounds over 12 weeks, those allowed to continue drinking diet soda lost, on average, 13 pounds in the same time period. That's a 4-pound difference. Hill says that in his clinical experience, many people who have successfully lost significant weight "are heavy users of noncaloric sweeteners." But why was the diet soda group more successful? The most likely reason is that this group had the easier task. Cutting calories and boosting exercise takes a lot of willpower. Trying to simultaneously give up something else you regularly enjoy -- such as diet soda -- taxes your ability to stay the course. Most psychologists agree that our willpower is a limited resource. So while this study did not track calorie consumption, the group blocked from drinking diet sodas most likely ate (or drank) more calories over the course of the 12-week diet. Since the study lasted just 12 weeks, it remains to be seen whether artificial sweeteners are beneficial in the long-term, says Susan Swithers, a professor of Behavioral Neuroscience at Purdue University. Swithers authored a report last year that found that diet soda drinkers have the same health issues as those who drink regular soda. It found that people who drink diet soda may be "at increased risk of excessive weight gain, metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease," according to the study. MORE: Study: Diet soda may do more harm than good "What the prospective studies actually suggest is that if you go out 7 years, 10 years, 15 years, 20 years, the cohorts of individuals who are consuming diet sodas have much worse health outcomes," says Swithers. Those studies show a correlation, and are not designed to show causation. But some researchers like Swithers suspect artificial sweeteners ultimately increase the desire for sweets. "Doing these short-term studies that look at weight can't really tell us anything about whether or not these products are contributing to these increased risks," says Swithers. "And it's really hard to look at the (long-term) data and come up with any argument that they're helping." Hill, who along with four other researchers, designed the study, which was selected for funding by the American Beverage Association from among multiple competing proposals. The American Beverage Association's membership includes numerous Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola bottling companies. "It makes sense that it would have been harder for the water group to adhere to the overall diet than the (artificially-sweetened beverage) group," says Hill. He added, "The most likely explanation was that having access to drinks with sweet taste helps the (artificially-sweetened beverage) group to adhere better to the behavioral change program." Real or fake sugar: Does it matter? In short, this study addresses the question of whether a regular diet soda drinker should attempt to kick his or her habit while also attempting to lose weight, not whether we should all drink more diet soda in order to lose weight. Artificially-sweetened beverages "are not weight-loss enhancers, so it's not anything in the compounds themselves that are promoting weight loss," says Hill. Kristi Norton, a regular diet soda drinker before the study began, was assigned to the group that required her to kick the habit. At the time of her CNN interview, she was not aware of the study's findings. She says she lost 12 pounds during the course of the study, but the real difference is in how she feels. "I feel like I could 1000% tell the benefit of drinking water only. I felt better, I had more energy, I felt healthier, I just generally felt way better," says Norton. "And I can feel the difference now when I drink a diet drink, I can feel this 'heaviness'." Apparently This Matters: Virtual soda drinking  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/health/back-pain-tips/index.html	health	15 natural back pain remedies - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:51:06 EDT 2014	(Health.com) -- Achy back? You're not alone: back problems send more Americans to the doctor annually than nearly any other medical problem, according to a 2013 Mayo Clinic study. Whether you're recovering from misjudging a heavy load (we've all been there), dealing with a lingering injury, or have a chronic problem, you don't necessarily need to resort to popping tons of pain relievers. Talk to your doc about these 15 expert-approved natural back pain remedies, and find out if they are safe and appropriate for you. Yoga Just say om. In a British study published in the Annals of Internal Medicine, low-back pain sufferers who took one yoga class a week for three months saw greater improvements in function compared to those receiving conventional care like medicine or physical therapy. Health.com: 15 exercises for people in pain  Stretching The same study found that stretching is just as effective as yoga in treating back pain. The 52-minute stretching classes consisted of 15 exercises that stretched all major muscle groups, but emphasized the trunk and legs. Massage Two words: Treat yourself. Chronic low back pain sufferers who got weekly massages reported less pain after 10 weeks than those who didn't, according to another Annals of Internal Medicine study. Acupuncture If the idea of having needles inserted into your skin gives you the heebie-jeebies, try to have an open mindit may be the key to relieving your chronic back pain. In a study, people who received acupuncture treatments were more likely to find back pain relief than those receiving conventional care. Health.com: 16 ways to lose weight fast  Talk therapy Talking about your back pain with a therapist may bring some relief. In a U.K. study, back pain sufferers who had 90 minutes of group cognitive behavioral therapy a week for six weeks reported less pain during the treatment. (Cognitive behavioral therapy focuses on solving problems by changing thoughts and behavior.) A year later, 59% said their pain was totally cured, compared to just 31% in the group that did not go through therapy. Strength training Celebrity fitness trainer Kathy Kaehler has a test for you: "Stand with your back to a wall, shoulder blades pressed against it. Can you hold the position for the length of the song 'Happy Birthday'? If not, you'll need to strengthen your back and core." Building strength in those areas can help prevent and relieve back pain. Try these four moves. Health.com: Strength moves that burn fat  Physical therapy Good things come to those who waitexcept perhaps when it comes to back pain treatment. Starting physical therapy within two weeks of back pain onset was associated with less risk of need for subsequent medical care as well as lower overall health costs, according to a study published in the journal Spine. Osteopathic manual therapy In osteopathic manual therapy (OMT), an osteopath or chiropractor moves your back muscles using hands-on techniques such as stretching, light pressure, and resistance. One study found that people who underwent OMT for 12 weeks saw a 30% reduction in their pain level. Stress reduction Learning to keep your cool is as good for your back as it is for your mental health. When you're anxious, your body sets off the "fight or flight" response, which involves tensing your muscles so you're ready to spring into action. One European study revealed that people prone to negative thoughts and anxiety are more likely to suffer from back pain. Get calm now with these stress-busting solutions. Health.com: Best and worst ways to cope with stress  Meditation Meditation has been proven to reduce chronic pain in several scientific studies. Research from Duke University found that people suffering from chronic back pain saw significant reductions in pain and psychological distress after practicing a form of meditation that focuses on releasing anger. In another study, meditators experienced a 40% reduction in pain intensity. Comfrey root People who used an ointment that contains this plant-based extract for five days reduced the intensity of lower back pain by 95%, according to a 2009 study conducted by Merck (which manufactures the ointment). In comparison, a placebo group had a 38% reduction in pain during that same time, according to the study in the British Journal of Sports Medicine. Look for comfrey root ointment in health food stores or online. Just don't use it for more than 10 days at a timeit can be toxic. Aquatic therapy Aquatic therapy is essentially physical therapy in a pool. Instead of using weights for resistance, patients use the resistance of the water. Studies show it may help alleviate lower back pain. In one 2013 study, sedentary adults who underwent aquatic therapy five times a week for two months saw reductions in pain and increases in quality of life. One smaller study found that aquatic therapy also helped pregnant women who were experiencing aching lower backs. Tai Chi This slow-moving form of Chinese martial arts may be an effective back pain treatment. In a 2011 American College of Rheumatology study, people who completed two 40-minute Tai Chi sessions a week for 10 weeks reduced pain intensity 1.3 points on a zero to 10 scale. Health.com: 27 Mistakes Healthy People Make  The Alexander technique A form of physical therapy, practitioners of the Alexander technique teach patients how to adjust their posture during everyday activities to reduce muscular tension and stress. In a BMJ study, people who took lessons in the Alexander technique saw long-term improvement in pain and quality of life. Pilates It may be tempting to quit exercising when you're suffering from back pain, but it's essential to keep yourself moving. Pilates is one great option. In a 2014 European Journal of Physical Rehabilitation Medicine study, researchers found an improvement in pain, disability, and psychological health in chronic low-back pain patients who took five hour-long Pilates classes a week for six months. Meanwhile, people who remained inactive experienced further worsening of their pain. Similarly, a Medicine and Science in Sport and Exercise study revealed that taking either Pilates or a general exercise class twice a week for six weeks both improved pain and quality of life. This article originally appeared on Health.com  Copyright Health Magazine 2011 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/health/extreme-weight-loss-wyatt/index.html	health	Extreme weight loss: 5 key strategies - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 07:48:37 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Dr. Holly Wyatt is the medical director of the Anschutz Health and Wellness Center in Colorado and for season four of ABC's "Extreme Weight Loss." (CNN) -- You see it on TV all the time: People losing hundreds of pounds, going from couch potatoes to athletes, transforming themselves into different (and happier) human beings. How do they do it when most people struggle to lose 10 or 15 pounds? Big weight loss requires big lifestyle changes that stick for more than a few weeks, and it almost always involves a true life transformation. Yes, learning to eat very differently and move more -- a lot more -- are required, but that alone doesn't always produce extreme results. Do you want to experience a big life transformation? Here are five strategies to get you on your way. And none of them are about how to eat or how much you need to exercise: 1. Get comfortable being uncomfortable.  Transforming your life requires stepping out of your comfort zone. Let's face it, being comfortable and doing the behaviors you do right now got you to the weight and place you are today. If you are OK with that, keep doing what you are doing. If not, you need to prepare yourself for true change -- and this means being willing to embrace feeling uncomfortable. No real transformation happens inside your comfort zone. 2. Get your mind right. Eating right and exercise are critical pieces to any physical transformation, but a mental transformation is just as important. People who succeed develop an optimistic or positive attitude about their new life. They expect success; they believe they can and will succeed. They concentrate on what they get to do in their new life, NOT what they can't do. They savor positive moments, and enjoy the journey! 3. Figure out your deeper 'Why?' True transformation requires powerful motivation. This motivation comes from linking your new lifestyle to the things you most want to accomplish. Look a little deeper and consider your purpose in life. Is it to run your own company, keep up with your children, help the underserved or be a better spouse? Identifying how your new lifestyle will help you achieve these things is what will get you up at 5 a.m. or allow you to pass up your favorite dessert when necessary. Linking your new lifestyle to your passions makes a transformation permanent, not temporary. Successful transformers spend time peeling back the layers and determining why they really want to lose weight, to better understand who they really are inside! 4. Be the hero in your own movie. Only you have the power to change you. One of the most important steps in any transformation is deciding to stop playing the victim role. Realizing you have the power to write your story is critical to achieving true transformation. Things do not happen TO you anymore; YOU create opportunities and direct your new life. You are empowered to choose what you will do and how you will react. 5. Pay it forward.  Successful transformers appreciate what they have been given and how their lives have changed for the better. They want to help others change their life and experience the power of transformation, and by doing this, they help themselves. It's contagious!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/health/cheap-food-obesity/index.html	health	Report: Cheap food makes us fat - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 09:53:00 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Forget everything you know about what's making us fat. We hear a lot about Americans being fast food-addicted couch potatoes, and while that does play a role in the nation's expanding waist lines, a new study concludes it's not the driving force behind the obesity epidemic. Instead all Americans -- no matter what income level they have and no matter what neighborhood they live in -- are getting bigger because food is cheaper than ever before, the study authors say. Simply put, we're spending less of our total budget on food so we're buying more. The study, published in the June edition of the journal CA Cancer, found that people in 1930 spent about a fourth of their disposable income on food. Today food takes up about a tenth of our disposable income. Food is also easier to prepare and easier to purchase than it was in 1930. That means Americans aren't just eating more high-calorie food, they are eating more of a variety of foods. Consequently, Americans have consumed, on average, about 20% more calories since the 1970s. Lead study authors Roland Sturm and An Ruopeng hope it will lay to rest some myths about obesity. He lost 125 pounds, but still felt fat "If you look at the data over time, you actually see a slight increase in exercise. And Americans have more access to fruits and vegetables," said Roland Sturm who is a senior economist at the RAND Corporation. "It's not Southern hospitality that is driving this trend, nor is it income or education. Really nothing protects us from this challenge of obesity." On average, Americans have been getting fatter since at least the 1950s, maybe even longer. While the data isn't perfect, experts looking at health records for men between the ages of 40 and 49 see a steady increase in body mass index since 1900. Obesity isn't only a problem for people who want to wear bikinis to the beach. Excess body fat can raise a person's risk for heart disease, cancer, diabetes, stroke and chronic illnesses. "What this article reinforces is that we need to continue our research to find what combination of strategies will be most effective long term in helping all of us live healthier lives," said Colleen Doyle, director of nutrition and physical activity for the American Cancer Society. Doyle suggests a better built environment where it is easy for people to engage in physical activity -- meaning sidewalks and bike lanes and safer streets. Also helpful would be changing social norms so that families will expect healthier school meals and calorie counts are readily available on restaurant menus. "No one thing is the solution to this problem we are having," Doyle said. Can you really control where you lose fat? This latest study points out a few positives. Americans are exercising more: Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show an uptick in the number of people who say they get 30 minutes of moderate exercise five or more days a week, or 20 minutes of vigorous activity on three or more days (about 51% in 2009, compared to 46% in 2001). The availability of fresh produce has also increased over the last 40 years, with a 27% increase in fresh fruit and a 21% increase in fresh vegetables per capita from 1970 to 2010. But the number of people who actually eat fruits and vegetables has stayed flat. That may be one area where public policy could help. Agriculture policy "has a huge impact on what people eat," said study co-author An Ruopeng. "Maybe instead of promoting commodity food like corn and soy, we could instead incentivize small farms to grow more fruits and vegetables." "We don't want food to become really expensive again; that is not the answer," said Sturm. "The markets were successful in solving a really old problem" of food scarcity. "Now we have a new problem in the works with obesity, so we may need the market forces now to nudge in a different direction." How to break your junk food addiction Sturm believes a policy South Africa has tried may help. In some 800 supermarkets in the African country, healthy foods were subsidized and available at a 25% discount. The price did "nudge people in the right direction" to eat healthier. A tax on sugary foods and sodas in Mexico was also introduced last year, but experts are still waiting to see what impact that policy will have on eating habits. Here in the United States, some members of Congress have introduced similar taxes, but haven't been able to get them passed. It will take more than public policy to end the obesity epidemic, the study authors say. "There is no silver bullet," Sturm said. True change would have to come from the ground up. Smoking, for instance, used to be common indoors, but policy and social attitude has made that less socially acceptable. "When people come over to visit, you offer them a coke or freshly baked cookies," Sturm said. "That is the social norm. But maybe in the future we will look at that behavior like we do about public smoking." Two big meals may be better than six small ones  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/health/beef-recall/index.html	health	Stores in 15 states could have received tainted beef - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 08:02:53 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Check your ground beef before you grill this Memorial Day weekend. The USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service says stores in at least 15 states may have received beef contaminated with E. coli O157:H7. The service announced this week that 1.8 million pounds of ground beef products were being recalled because they could be contaminated. The federal agency has since named businesses that may have received the tainted products. Stores that may be affected include:  Gordon Food Service Marketplace stores in Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Wisconsin  Giorgio's Italian Delicatessen in Stuart, Florida  Surf N Turf Market in Sebring, Florida  Blairsville Seafood Market in Blairsville, Georgia  Butcher Block Plus in Decatur, Illinois  M Sixty Six General Store in Orleans, Michigan  Harvest Moon Co-op in Long Lake, Minnesota  Foscoe Country Corner in Boone, North Carolina  Bronson's Super Valu in Beulah, North Dakota  Jason's Super Foods in New Town, North Dakota  Buchtel Food Mart in Buchtel, Ohio  Chunky Foods in Girard, Ohio  Ian's Market in Englewood, Tennessee  Quick Stop in Erwin, Tennessee  Virginia Market in Maynardville, Tennessee  Barger Foods in Nashville, Tennessee  Stanley Valley Market in Surgoinsville, Tennessee  Parkway Tobacco Express in Appomattox, Virginia  Kelley's Market in Eagle Rock, Virginia  Virginia Heights Travel Store in Wytheville, Virginia What government tests found in your meat A representative for the U.S. Department of Agriculture said the meat is being removed from store shelves. But consumers should return or throw out meat that has the code EST.2574B and a production date between March 31 and April 18, 2014. The ground beef is sold under a variety of labels, according to the USDA, but comes from Wolverine Packing Co. in Detroit. "While none of the Wolverine Packing product has tested positive for the pathogen implicated in this outbreak, the company felt it was prudent to take this voluntary recall action in response to the illnesses and initial outbreak investigation findings," said Chuck Sanger, a spokesman for Wolverine Packing. Eleven people across four states are suspected to have been sickened by the product, according to the USDA, which learned about the first such illnesses on May 8. Ten of those people were sickened after eating at restaurants that received contaminated meat. But federal officials say regulations prohibit them from naming those restaurants. "People who were exposed were already exposed, so it doesn't help the public to tell them now that a certain restaurant was associated with these illnesses," said David Goldman, assistant administrator for the Office of Public Health Science at the USDA. "Our job really is to identify product that may still be available." According to information officials received from the packing company, he said, the meat went to many states. "The number changes. Yesterday, it was on the order of nearly 40 states, but we don't -- that number changes. That's part of the process, too, is to identify where the food -- the meat in this case -- was actually distributed," Goldman said. The recall was categorized by the Food Safety and Inspection Service as Class I: a health hazard situation in which there is a reasonable probability that the use of the product will cause serious, adverse health consequences or death. E. coli is a large group of bacteria that live in the intestines of people and animals, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Certain strains cause gastrointestinal illness in humans, with symptoms such as abdominal pain and diarrhea. An estimated 265,000 infections occur in the United States each year, the CDC says. People usually get sick three to four days after ingesting the bacteria and recover on their own. Young children, pregnant women, the elderly and people who have weakened immune systems (like cancer or HIV patients) are at greater risk for severe illness and death. The best way to avoid getting sick is by washing hands frequently when preparing food and avoiding cross-contamination by washing cutting boards, counters and utensils with hot, soapy water. Properly washing hands after using the bathroom and after coming into contact with animals or being in their environments -- anywhere there may be traces of feces -- also helps. Cooking meats thoroughly to at least 160F or 70C kills the bacteria and prevents infection as well. Using a meat thermometer will most accurately help you determine that the food is thoroughly cooked. Eatocracy: Don't get sick from your picnic Food Safety and Inspection Service officials said in a news release that the agency is continuing to work with state and federal public health partners on the investigation and provide updated information as it becomes available. After CNN exclusive, USDA probing 'personnel issues' in meat recall How 9 million pounds of bad meat escaped into the food supply Food safety tips from a pro CNN's Chris Frates, David Fitzpatrick, Jacque Wilson, Miriam Falco, Elizabeth Cohen, William Hudson, Greg Botelho and Stephanie Smith contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/health/sunscreen-rules/index.html	health	Sunscreen 101: Don't forget your nose - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 07:02:04 EDT 2014	Editor's note: This story was originally published on CNN in August 2013. We're bringing it back so you can protect yourself at the pool and beach this summer. Happy "Don't Fry Day!" (Health.com) -- Unless you've been living under a rock, you know to apply sunscreen. There's lifesaving reason to: About 3.5 million cases of skin cancer will be diagnosed this year. "The incidence of skin cancer, including melanoma -- the deadliest kind -- is going up, and wearing sunscreen is one of the best ways to prevent it," says Dr. Ronald Moy, a dermatologist and spokesperson for the Skin Cancer Foundation. Stick with these smart tips to make sure you're as protected as you can possibly be. Select a sunscreen you love Finding your sunscreen soul-mate is the key motivating factor for using it regularly, experts agree. "If you think your sunscreen is pasty, thick or smelly, you have the wrong kind," says Dr. Jeffrey Dover, clinical associate professor of dermatology at Yale University. "It may make you less likely to put it on, or to reapply when you do." Happily, there are plenty of lightweight, sheer formulas on the market. Health.com: Which sunscreen is best for you?  Remember, SPF 30 is the new 15 As a general rule, SPF 15 blocks 93% of UVB rays, SPF 30 blocks 97% and SPF 50 blocks 98%. Doctors now typically recommend at least SPF 30 -- at least being the key words. If you have a family history of skin cancer or are vacationing in a tropical spot (where the sun is especially intense), go for 50 or even 70. Just keep in mind: No sunscreen provides 100% protection. So to be safe as possible, you still need to reapply every two hours and after a swim, even if you used the water-resistant kind, says Dr. Joshua Zeichner, director of cosmetic and clinical research in dermatology at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. FYI, sunscreen becomes less effective about three years after you open the container. Health.com: Is it a mole...or skin cancer?  Check labels for the term broad-spectrum It means the sunscreen provides protection against both UVA (wrinkle- and cancer-causing) and UVB (burning) rays. Problem is, that labeling rule only went into effect in December and stores still sell inventory made prior to it, notes Dr. Steven Wang, director of dermatologic surgery and dermatology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Basking Ridge, New Jersey. So if you're shopping and there's no broad-spectrum mention, check the ingredients for zinc or avobenzone, the only two that provide top-notch UVA coverage, he says. Health.com: 7 ways you're aging your skin Layer it on Think you apply enough? Almost no one does. "Several big studies show that most people rub in only about a fourth of what's needed to reach the labeled SPF -- it's faster and easier to put on just a bit," notes Dover. Instead of that old advice to use a shot glass-size dose, all our experts recommend applying two coats. Squeeze a line of lotion down your arms and legs and rub in, then do it again. Ditto for spray formulas: hold the nozzle close to your skin and spray, moving slowly up and down until you see a sheen, then go back over the area. For your face, apply a pea-size drop to each cheek, your forehead and your chin, then smear in. Repeat! Health.com: Sun-proof your skin from a to z Don't forget your nose It's the number one sunburn-spot, dermatologists say. "People apply sunscreen to their face, but either skip or speed over their nose -- especially if they wear glasses, because they don't want to take them off," Wang says. Moy adds, "80% of the skin cancers I remove are on the nose." Other commonly missed areas include the feet, hair part, ears and chest, as well as the backs of hands and legs. Use a sunscreen stick to spot-apply. Get antioxidant insurance Since rays can still get through sunscreen, companies are now including antioxidants such as vitamins C and E and green tea to help mitigate damage. If you don't want to bother applying a serum that contains them beneath your moisturizer or sunscreen (Wang's first choice), try a souped-up SPF pick. Realize that sunscreen is only one part of a sun-smart plan "The hierarchy of sun protection should be avoidance first, then seek shade and wear a wide-brim hat and protective clothing, then use sunscreen -- but most people have that sequence backward," Wang points out. Consider hitting the beach or pool in the morning instead of midday (when sun is strongest), and bring an umbrella and a tightly woven long-sleeve shirt. Know that it's never too late to start safe habits So you baked in the sun as a teen with little or no sunscreen. While regular tanning or getting several bad burns when you're young raises your risk of skin cancer, Moy says, what's critical is that you put on sunscreen these days. "Since skin's ability to repair itself decreases with age, your risk is even greater if you burn now." Good thing you're using it! Photos: Your worst sunburns ever  Copyright Health Magazine 2011 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/09/health/blomberg-surgery-questions/index.html	health	5 questions to ask before surgery - CNN.com	2014/05/09	Friday May 9 07:15:04 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Dr. Adam Blomberg is the national education director for Sheridan Healthcare's anesthesia division. He also is the director of clinical education at Memorial Regional Hospital, Sheridan Healthcare's flagship anesthesia practice, in Hollywood, Florida.  (CNN) -- Preparing for surgery can be stressful and overwhelming. Feelings of uneasiness are common, but you don't have to feel that way. You're fully empowered to ask questions and seek answers before you enter the operating room. Your doctors and nurses are your ultimate resources. They are there to guide you through what we call the perioperative process: before, during and after surgery. From the moment the surgery is scheduled until your post-op recovery is complete, you should feel comfortable to ask any question that arises. Educating yourself is one of the best ways to eliminate any anxiety and empower yourself as a patient. The following are some questions that you should ask as you move through the process: 1. Do I have to have this surgery? First and foremost, find out if you must have surgery. Is it medically necessary? Are there any alternatives? What are the risks and benefits associated with each option? Will your insurance cover the procedure? Many people depend on the Internet to answer these questions. Anyone can type "surgery" or "pre-op" into a search engine and find all sorts of information, but I caution my patients to avoid going online to learn about their surgeries. Weight loss surgery isn't a golden ticket You can reference the Internet as a guide, but remember it is built for general information, not detailed information about a specific case. Every patient is an individual. And I remind my family that "doctors don't look for zebras, they look for horses" -- you're not likely to be the rare "zebra" case that an Internet search might bring up. 2. Where is the surgery being done, and what is the facility's experience with this type of procedure? After you determine that you need to have surgery, you have to think about where you're having it. You'll want to look at the experience and expertise of the surgeon, staff and hospital. Do they have established experience with the particular type of surgery you are having? Do you have to go to a specific hospital, or are there several from which to choose? Could the procedure be done at a surgical center or outpatient facility? If your child is the patient, make sure the hospital has experience with pediatric patients. The same goes for the elderly. You'll also want to check with your health insurance carrier about what facilities they will cover. Some insurance plans will not pay for a procedure unless the facility is "in network" -- in other words, your primary care provider may have to have a relationship with a particular facility. 3. How do I prepare for my procedure -- both physically and mentally?  The physical preparation is hands-down the most important, individualized part of the surgical process. For some people, little preparation is needed. For others, it may be necessary to speak to your primary care provider, cardiologist or other specialists. Blindsided by cancer: 5 things to do Find out if you need any testing beforehand, or if you need to make any changes to your medication regimen. Ask your doctor about eating and drinking before the procedure. If you're a smoker, find out how that could affect your preparation. Make sure you are eating well and getting enough sleep. It's important to take good care of yourself before having surgery. Mental preparation is also key. You need to prepare your family or friends, because chances are you'll need their assistance when you come home. Be sure to have caregivers ready to help you. Don't have the unreal expectation that you will go back to your regular routine instantly. 4. What are my anesthesia options? For many people, anesthesia is one of the most concerning aspects of surgery. Talk to your doctor about the different types of anesthesia. Some surgeries require a specific type of anesthesia, but you may have options. If you do have the option of choosing what kind to have, make sure you understand ahead of time what the risks and benefits are. Being nervous about anesthesia is normal, but educating yourself will help alleviate your fears. As an anesthesiologist, I always remind people that my job is to wake people up, not just put them to sleep. 5. What will my recovery be like?  Complications are sometimes unavoidable after surgery, but you can help reduce some of the risks by following your doctor's instructions and caring for yourself before you head into the operating room. You may not be better off after knee surgery After surgery, you may have pain, nausea or vomiting. Ask your doctor what you can do to alleviate these common reactions. Learn what your expected recovery time frame will be like. Ask about your pain management options. And be sure your loved ones understand what to expect in the weeks following the surgery. Knowing what to expect makes the recovery process easier.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/13/health/frieden-global/index.html	health	CDC: 5 ways diseases in other countries can kill you - CNN.com	2014/02/13	Thursday Feb 13 10:06:06 EST 2014	Editor's note: Dr. Tom Frieden is director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. On Thursday, the United States joined more than 25 nations and international organizations to launch the Global Health Security Agenda, an effort to accelerate progress toward a world free of infectious disease.  (CNN) -- The world is smaller and people are more mobile than at any time in history. This makes it easier than ever for what's happening anywhere on the globe to harm Americans' health.  Here are five ways diseases in other countries pose a threat: The flu could threaten millions. Even in a mild year for flu, in the United States alone, there are thousands of deaths, hundreds of thousands of hospitalizations, and billions of dollars in productivity losses. In a pandemic, millions of people worldwide could be killed. H7N9 influenza, also known as bird flu, is spreading in China, though fortunately it has not mutated to become an infectious disease outbreak that could threaten the health of people around the world. Antibiotic resistance is on the rise. Antibiotic resistance just might be the most urgent health threat facing us now. The nightmare strain of bacteria known as CRE, carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, arose abroad and was introduced to one state in the United States. Now it's in at least 44 states. It can resist all or almost all antibiotics, kills many of the people who get it in their blood, and spreads its resistance capabilities to other bacteria. The World Health Organization estimates multidrug-resistant tuberculosis already has infected a half a. million people across the globe. A nightmare health scenario we can stop Diseases don't respect borders. Going abroad can expose travelers to more than new cultures and once-in-a-lifetime experiences. More than 1,500 U.S. travelers get malaria every year, and the numbers are increasing. Yellow fever is spread by mosquitoes and causes more than 30,000 deaths worldwide each year, primarily in tropical areas of Africa and Latin America. People coming back from safari might bring back more than just pictures; they could find themselves facing African trypanosomiasis, better known as sleeping sickness, transmitted by the tsetse fly found only in rural Africa. "Foreign" diseases are now domestic threats. We think of parasitic diseases as risks to travelers, but they harm people here at home as well. For example, Chagas disease is a chronic infection generally acquired by people in rural areas of Latin America, but about 300,000 people now living in the United States have this disease. Toxoplasmosis is a parasitic disease common in the tropics that infects more than 60 million people in the United States. While the immune system usually keeps the parasite from making people sick, it can cause death attributed to foodborne illness. Emerging infections: What's the next HIV? Mosquito-borne diseases such as West Nile virus, dengue, and chikungunya infect hundreds of thousands of people each year and are spreading globally. In the past few years, we've seen global outbreaks of Ebola and other deadly viral hemorrhagic fevers. 5 health challenges for 2014 There are many diseases out there that we don't even know about. Our new effort can prevent them from becoming epidemics. That's why CDC partners with nations all over the world to detect and respond to disease outbreaks. Together we responded to more than 250 outbreaks in 2013. No single country can deal with these health threats alone. Cooperation between countries has tremendous impact in early detection. Early detection of a single case of Ebola virus in 2011 led to an immediate response and the disease was stopped in its tracks. Previous similar outbreaks were large and spread rapidly through communities there. CDC is helping countries around the world strengthen their ability to prevent avoidable catastrophes and epidemics, detect threats early, and respond rapidly and effectively. Stopping outbreaks where they occur is the most effective and least expensive way to save lives at home as well as abroad. And it's the right thing to do. That's why we announced Thursday that the United States, through the work of the CDC and the departments of Agriculture, State, and Defense, has committed to cooperate with at least 30 partner countries to better prevent, detect, and effectively respond to infectious disease threats, better protecting at least 4 billion people around the world -- including the United States -- from threats. How to prevent the next pandemic And we have called on partner countries to work together so that effective prevention, detection, and response are present in every country around the world. This year CDC and the Department of Defense have pledged $40 million to expand to 10 additional countries in addition to the pilot projects in Uganda and Vietnam. President Obama will request an additional $45 million in 2015 to accelerate progress around the world. It's an essential step in strengthening global health security that will protect Americans, strengthen our nation's global partnerships, and increase health security capacity around the world. Helping other countries makes those countries, and the United States, safer. The most infectious of all infectious diseases  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/03/health/digital-eyestrain/index.html	health	How to avoid digital eyestrain - CNN.com	2014/02/03	Monday Feb 3 07:13:29 EST 2014	Editor's note: Dr. Edward Kondrot, founder of the Healing The Eye & Wellness Center, is the world's only board-certified ophthalmologist and board-certified homeopathic physician. He has recently been named clinic director of the Integrative Medicine Clinic at The American Medical College of Homeopathy in Phoenix and is president of the Arizona Homeopathic and Integrative Medical Association. (CNN) -- Our lives have increasingly become more digital today. While some may see this as a benefit, others are finding that it can literally be a pain in the eye. Digital eyestrain is now a common problem. Eye and vision problems are reported in 70 to 75% of computer workers, according to the American Optometric Association. Headaches, eye pain, redness, watering, double vision and loss of focus are all associated with digital eyestrain. The good news is there are numerous things you can do to help avoid the condition, including: Take a break. Take frequent 15 minute breaks and focus your eyes on a distant object across the room. This will give the focusing muscle a chance to relax. Try palming. This is essentially meditation for the eyes. To do this, you will close your eyes and place the centers of your palms over your eyes. Take deep slow breaths and relax your eye muscles. This is a wonderful way to rejuvenate your eyes during those long computer projects. Keep your shoulders and neck relaxed. Tension in this area will cause a tension in your eyes. An occasional neck and shoulder massage will also work wonders. Blink frequently. When doing demanding digital work, your blink rate decreases. A conscious effort should be made to blink lightly every 10 to 15 seconds. This will coat the cornea, or front part of the eye, to nourish your eye with oxygen and nutrients -- and the coating of tears will also sharpen your vision. Wear computer glasses. Use a pair of computer glasses and work at the proper distance -- 20 to 28 inches, depending on the focal point of the eye. Computer glasses have a different focal point than reading glasses. This will reduce the effort of focusing and putting a strain on your eyes. The extra effort to focus will cause tension in the eye muscles, which in addition to causing eye discomfort can lead to an increase in eye pressure. Your smartphone is a pain in the neck Keep your monitor bright. This will reduce the flicker rate of the computer and reduce fatigue. Flickering can lead to eyestrain and headaches. A bright monitor causes the pupil to constrict and a greater range of focus will result. This will reduce the need for your eye to accommodate and enable you to work longer with more comfort. Reduce blue light at night. A Harvard study revealed that blue light at night negatively reduces melatonin levels, which have a serious adverse health effect. It is associated with an increased incidence of diabetes, obesity and cancer. Reduce computer time at night or wear blue blocking glasses. These will block out the harmful blue spectrum light at night. Take vitamins and minerals. Considering that the eyes have one of the highest energy requirements in the body, it is important that they get proper amounts of vitamins and minerals. It is important to opt for a vitamin that offers key antioxidants and ingredients that will help improve the health of the eye and reduce eyestrain. Those can include vitamins A, C, and E with a B complex and zinc. Homeopathy. Speak with a practitioner to find a level of therapy that will work for your individual circumstances. One of the most common homeopathic remedies to treat eyestrain is Ruta Graveolens, a common ornamental plant found in gardens that is used to treat strains of tendons. This remedy can greatly reduce the symptoms of eyestrain during prolonged computer use. Increase the light. Not having a light on when you are using the computer (or television) can put more of a strain on your eyes. Be sure to have a light on to help reduce the strain. Check your computer's position. The position of your computer can add to your eyestrain. It is important that it is positioned a good distance away, around 20-28 inches from the eye, and that there are no glares on it. Re-position your computer to provide maximum eye comfort. Following the tips above can help reduce your chances of getting digital eyestrain. You will feel better and be able to work longer.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/24/health/raison-anxiety/index.html	health	Here's what to do about your anxiety - CNN.com	2014/01/24	Friday Jan 24 06:40:26 EST 2014	Editor's note: Watch our anxiety Google Hangout: CNN's Kat Kinsman chatted live about anxiety with mental health experts as well as others who experience anxiety and want to talk about it.  (CNN) -- Dr. Charles Raison, CNN's mental health expert, addresses two questions from readers reacting to a piece on anxiety from Kat Kinsman, CNN Eatocracy managing editor, on her lifelong struggle with the condition. Look for Raison to address other questions in the future. Q: Can using marijuana or having a drink or two be helpful for people with anxiety? What should they watch out for? Dr. Raison: If one goes on any search engine looking for study results related to marijuana or alcohol and depression or anxiety, one will immediately see that most of the evidence tells a cautionary tale. Many studies suggest that regular use of either marijuana or alcohol is associated with an increased risk for a variety of mental health problems, anxiety and depression among them. Increasing data suggests that regular marijuana use in adolescence may also be a risk factor for developing very serious psychotic disorders, especially schizophrenia. In addition to promoting other disorders, alcohol is especially liable to abuse and dependence and has ruined innumerable people's lives for millennia. Far fewer studies have examined whether using these compounds in moderation might improve depression or anxiety. But as Socrates noted almost 2,000 years ago, alcohol is both a blessing and a curse to mankind. Indeed, now we know that the regular modest use of alcohol actually promotes a number of health factors. Similarly, it is increasingly clear that many of the chemicals within marijuana hold great promise for the treatment of physical pain. The endocannabinoid system in the brain -- which is a primary target for marijuana -- has profound effects on how people think and feel. My son is mentally ill, so listen up For example, increasing evidence suggests that the "runners high" many people get after strenuous exercise is produced primarily by activation of the brain's' internal endocannabinoid system. Other chemicals in marijuana impact other brain pathways, like serotonin, that are known to play a role in depression and anxiety. People have been taking a drink or two in the evening since time immemorial. And many people will attest that this practice helps them shed the cares of the day. Recently, I've met with several very experienced psychiatrists who have been recommending small amounts of marijuana use for for very depressed patients who haven't responded to antidepressants. In some patients, they are reporting remarkable improvements. But the problem at this point is that while many studies have shown an association between alcohol/marijuana and mental illness, I don't know of any really rigorous studies looking at the therapeutic potential of either for depression and anxiety. Answering the question of what people who use these substances should watch out for is easier. They should watch out for the possibility that they become more anxious or depressed after drinking or using marijuana. And they should keep a close eye on their use, especially use of alcohol, which can be highly addictive. Whatever potential benefit alcohol and marijuana may offer is 100% lost once they are abused. Q: What are the best anxiety treatments who don't want (or are afraid) to take medicines? Is there anything that might ease their concerns? Is there a point where medication becomes essential? Dr. Raison: By far the best studied non-medicine treatment for depression or anxiety is psychotherapy. Literally hundreds of studies have shown that on average psychotherapy works as well for these conditions as do medications. Of the various psychotherapies, the best studied is cognitive behavioral therapy, or CBT. But studies are being done all the time, and other forms of therapy are also emerging as highly effective. Over and above the type of therapy employed, a key factor of therapeutic success is the "fit" between the client/patient and therapist. In practical terms, this means that people should feel comfortable with their therapists. If one feels ignored, looked down upon, dismissed or attacked, it is very unlikely the therapy will be successful. Very often when therapy works people start feeling better within a few weeks, so this is also something to look for. No other non-medical treatment for depression or anxiety has anywhere near the amount of supporting evidence that psychotherapy does. Having said this, significant evidence now points to the usefulness of exercise for improving mental health. Especially when it comes to depression, exercise has been repeatedly shown to be of value. Both strength training and aerobic exercise have benefits and combining them is the best of all. However, to get the full antidepressant effect of exercise requires real commitment. To work optimally, exercise must be engaged in for at least 30 minutes a day five days a week. And the intensity level should be such that one has some difficulty carrying on a conversation while doing it. Anxiety, you're not the boss of me However, other health benefits accrue from far less strenuous exercise and in general many people feel better with even moderate exercise. Several supplements have shown promise in depression. Both SAMe and L-methylfolate have shown promise as additions to people not fully responding to antidepressants. Most of us in the field think they also work by themselves, although more data are needed. The data for St. John's Wort is plus/minus. Some evidence suggests that omega-3 fatty acids and N-acetyl-cysteine may also hold promise for the treatment of depression If someone has a pattern of becoming depressed every winter, bright light therapy with a light box delivering at least 10,000 lux of light has been shown to be very effective. About 10% of the population suffers from some degree of low mood and energy in winter. This phenomenon is more common in cold, dark, gray places than in warm, sunny Southern ones. The power of a light box to lift mood and give energy can really be exceptional. This is an option that is sadly too often overlookied. Many people swear by a variety of non-traditional approaches. The bottom line is that if someone is helped by these modalities and not harmed, the goal has been achieved. Dr. Charles Raison is an associate professor of psychiatry at the University of Arizona in Tucson. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/health/mers-illinois/index.html	health	CDC: Illinois man didn't have MERS - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 02:15:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- After conducting more definitive tests on blood samples from an Illinois businessman, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention officials have concluded that he was not infected with Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome, or MERS. On May 17, local, state and federal health officials reported preliminary tests showed that the businessman appeared to test positive for MERS. He had met with the first confirmed MERS patient in the United States, a U.S. resident who had traveled from Saudi Arabia to Indiana. However, after more extensive blood tests, the "CDC has concluded that the Illinois resident was not previously infected with MERS-CoV," according to the agency. This means there have been only two confirmed cases of MERS imported into the United States. The first instance of MERS in the United States was in the patient who had traveled to Indiana, who was working as a health care provider in Saudi Arabia. The second was in a health care provider who lives and works in Saudi Arabia and received a MERS diagnosis in Florida. The Florida and Indiana cases are not linked, said Dr. Anne Schuchat, director of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. MERS is a coronavirus, the same group of viruses as the common cold. It attacks the respiratory system, according to the CDC. Symptoms can lead to pneumonia or kidney failure. It was first found in the Arabian Peninsula in 2012. Florida MERS patient recovers  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/20/health/tweak-diet-age/index.html	health	7 ways you should tweak your diet as you age - CNN.com	2014/05/20	Tuesday May 20 07:12:33 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Cynthia Sass is a registered dietitian with master's degrees in both nutrition science and public health, and the author of "S.A.S.S! Yourself Slim: Conquer Cravings, Drop Pounds and Lose Inches." Connect with Cynthia on Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest.  (CNN) -- As you get older, it's important to make small changes to your diet to protect your long-term health. Here are seven nutrients to zero in on after turning 50. Vitamin D Why you need it: Scientific journals have been bursting at the seams in recent years with new research about the importance of vitamin D, and according the data, the vast majority of women aren't getting enough. One recent study found that adults with the lowest blood vitamin D levels were about twice as likely to die from any cause compared to those with the highest levels. Other studies have linked adequate intakes to lower rates of obesity, type 2 diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, osteoporosis, depression, certain cancers, and brain disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. This key nutrient is also tied to enhanced immunity, muscle functioning, and injury prevention (pretty impressive, huh?). Vitamin D's nickname is the "sunshine vitamin" because exposure to the sun's ultraviolet rays triggers its production in the body, but you can't rely on the sun as your sole source. Your location, cloud cover, smog, time of day and year, and sunscreen use all affect your UV exposure and vitamin D production. How to get it: Some of the best natural food sources include wild salmon, whole eggs (the D is in the yolk), and mushrooms, and it's in fortified foods like dairy, but it can be difficult to eat enough of these foods to meet your needs, so a supplement may be your best bet. Health.com: 12 ways to get your daily Vitamin D How much is safe: To identify the right amount to take, get your blood level tested. Based on the results, your doctor can recommend the proper daily dose. Calcium Why you need it: Bone density declines more rapidly after 50, and one in three women over this age will experience a bone fracture. Research shows that in the first years after menopause, women may lose 3 to 5% of their bone mass annually, and increases in calcium intakes generally don't offset the losses. Calcium is also required for muscle contractions, so this mineral allows you to get the most from every workout. It's also needed for nerve function, and helps maintain your body's acid/base balance, so there are plenty of reasons to strive to hit the suggested mark. How to get it: While dairy may be your first thought, there are also several plant-based sources, including dark leafy greens, beans and lentils, nuts, and dried figs. How much is safe: If you choose to use a supplement, just be sure not to go overboard. The recommended daily calcium intake for women over 50 is 1,200 mg per day, but the maximum advised limit, from both food and supplements combined, from age 51 on is 2,000 mg per day. I've seen plenty of women exceed that amount (sometimes unknowingly, sometimes because they mistakenly believe more is better), and getting too much can be risky, with potential side effects including kidney problems, kidney stones, and calcium deposits in soft tissues. High calcium intakes can also lead to constipation, and interfere with the absorption of iron and zinc, and recently, excess calcium has been linked to a higher risk of heart disease. Talk to your doctor or dietitian to be sure you're striking the right balance. Health.com: 14 surprising facts about healthy bones  Probiotics Why you need them: Probiotics have been shown to boost immunity, improve digestive and skin health, lower "bad" LDL cholesterol, fight gum disease, and enhance weight control, so there's plenty to benefit from for women over 50. How to get them: While foods like yogurt, kefir, kimchi, and sauerkraut contain probiotics, it may be difficult to consume enough of these "friendly bacteria" on a daily basis through food alone. How much is safe: If you opt for a supplement, ask your doc or dietitian for a recommended brand and amount. There's currently no standard dose for probiotics, like those that have been established for vitamins and minerals; and while probiotics are generally considered to be safe, your personal medical history should be taken into account before you pop a pill. Omega-3 fatty acids Why you need them: The omega-3s DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) and EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) are essential fatty acids that have been tied to vision and brain protection, healthy hair and skin, improved circulation, reduced muscle soreness, a lower risk of heart disease and depression, and a reduction in inflammation, which is a known trigger of aging and disease. This remarkable list of benefits makes getting sufficient amounts of these good fats particularly important in your 50s. How to get them: Fatty fish like salmon and sardines are rich sources, but a dislike of seafood or concerns about mercury may interfere with getting enough. And while plant-based foods like flaxseeds and walnuts contain a type of omega-3 called alpha-linolenic acid or ALA, your body only converts a small percentage of this form into EPA and DHA -- the two types that the vast majority of the research has focused on. How much is safe: If you choose to take a supplement that provides DHA and EPA (vegan options are available), it's important to note that there's currently no standard daily dose for healthy adults. Many experts recommend 1,000 mg of DHA/EPA combined, the amount advised for those with heart disease, and like some of the other nutrients I've mentioned, it's important not to go overboard. Emerging research shows that too much omega-3 may weaken immunity, and excess intakes have been linked to bleeding, especially when combined with medications or supplements that like omega-3s, also have a blood thinning effect. Once again, to pinpoint the amount that's right for you, rely on advice from your personal health care providers. Health.com: Good fats, bad fats: How to choose  Magnesium Why you need it: Getting enough of this key "maintenance mineral" which is involved in more than 300 bodily reactions can keep your energy soaring and allow you to look and feel like you've turned back the clock. Magnesium helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, preserves strong bones, and slashes stroke and heart disease risk. It also helps regulate blood sugar levels and promotes normal blood pressure, but many women fall short of the recommended intake. How to get it: Good food sources include spinach, almonds, cashews, black beans, quinoa, and pumpkin, sesame, and sunflower seeds. How much is safe: If you opt for a supplement, look for one with no more than 100% of the daily value (400 mg), unless your doctor or dietician has advised differently. Too much magnesium can trigger nausea, diarrhea, appetite loss, muscle weakness, breathing problems, irregular heartbeat, and dangerously low blood pressure. Fiber Why you need it: Fiber-rich meals result in a steadier rise in blood sugar and a lower insulin response, as well as a slower rate of digestion and absorption, which keeps you fuller longer and delays the return of hunger. It also keeps you "regular" by helping your digestive system stay in tip top shape, and getting enough fiber is also a smart weight control strategy. Research has shown that for every gram of fiber we eat, we eliminate about seven calories. That means if you eat 35 grams a day, you'll essentially "cancel out" 245 calories -- a savings that could effectively stave off age-related weight gain. How to get it: To bolster your intake, rely on foods that are naturally fiber-rich, like fruits and vegetables (especially those with an edible skin and/or seeds or tough stalk) beans and lentils, and small portions of nuts and whole grains, including oats, whole grain rice, quinoa, and barley. Health.com: 20 best foods for fiber  Water Why you need it: Water, your body's most important nutrient, is required for every bodily process, and you lose water from your body each minute of the day. Replacing those losses adequately can help you reap the benefits of water, including optimized mood and metabolism, as well as better digestive health (especially if you're stepping up your fiber game), and glowing skin. Good old H2O is also linked to weight control. A recent study found that when middle-aged and older adults drank two cups of water prior to eating a meal, they ate between 75 and 90 fewer calories. Another 12-week study found that adults who gulped extra water lost about 30% more weight following the same diet compared to those who drank less. And a small German study found that drinking two liters of water a day could result in burning up to 95 extra calories, an effect that could help fend off age-related weight gain. How to get (more of) it: According to the Institute of Medicine (IOM), women ages 19 and over need 2.7 liters of total fluid per day (more than 11 cups). About 20% of your fluid needs are met by food, but that still leaves nearly nine cups based on the IOM's guidelines. While other beverages may count as fluid, water is the best way to meet your daily needs, so strive for at least 16 ounces four times a day. This article originally appeared on Health.com.   Copyright Health Magazine 2011 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/09/health/suicide-attempt-irpt-christine-ohagan/index.html	health	How I learned to live after trying to end my life - CNN.com	2014/05/09	Friday May 9 09:22:34 EDT 2014	Editor's note: May is Mental Health Awareness Month. Suicide prevention advocate Christine O'Hagan shared her story with CNN iReport after reading Erin Schwantner's recent essay, I was an accomplice to my brother's suicide. This essay was compiled from her iReport submission and entries from her blog, Second Chances.  (CNN) -- I am a mother, a wife, a college graduate, an executive, a marathon runner and a member of the church choir. And I am mentally ill. I attempted suicide in November 2012 and was hospitalized. I have not attempted to kill myself since, nor did I previously. But that's not because I don't have the urge to. I used to be that person who judged those who took "the easy way out." I felt particular disdain for adults who would do this, leaving children and loved ones behind. For two years, I managed to swallow my self-hatred and continue to trudge through life unhappy and sick, having no clue this was not normal. Going public with mental illness: Share your story  It had been a rough and challenging time. Work was overwhelming. I had just changed jobs and moved myself and my two girls to a new town. My relationship was ending. I was tired and lonely. I knew I needed to get help, but in my mind, the repercussions for doing so were so great, I couldn't risk giving any clues to anyone that I was in crisis. I was afraid I would lose my job, career, my children, and that my family would turn their back on me for being "crazy." I started to hope and pray for a fatal disease or accident that would take me soon. I didn't care how physically painful it would be, I just needed to go. If a car wreck or cancer took me, my children would get sympathy, and my parents would have help and a reason to remember me fondly. They wouldn't have anger, shame and stigma hanging over their heads for the rest of their lives. I tried to talk myself out of wanting to die. "Think of the positives," I would tell myself, over and over. "Be thankful for what you have." "Look at the angelic faces of your children who love you and need you here." I started running marathons and boxing to keep me busy, but it didn't help ... at least not for long. That last day of November, I had the sudden realization that every breath was more painful than the last. I was in the darkest place I have ever been, and I saw no way out. The pain had to stop. I'd been through some painful moments, but nothing was comparable. I survived skin cancer as a pre-teen and live with lupus. I gave birth without pain medicine or epidurals. I've been hurt emotionally and mentally and never felt anything like this before. So when my children left for school for the day, I called in sick to work then said what I thought would be a final prayer for peace. Mother of suicide teen: "Make them talk about their feelings" I had thought about killing myself a million times before. I had researched it extensively. I knew what would be most effective, the least painful. Alone in my kitchen that morning, the plan quickly began to take shape. The end was in sight. Then, my cell phone rang. "You are my Sunshine" filled the room -- my daughter's ring tone. The zombie in me broke. I managed to call for help, and began to lose consciousness as the ambulance arrived. I intentionally don't go into the details of my attempt because I find it to be triggering to others who may be on the brink of an attempt. It has been shown to be dangerous to read or learn of others' methods. Also, I do not want to be disrespectful to my family by sharing the literal details. There were several times I wondered why I survived. I was so angry and devastated when I woke up in the hospital. But those feelings quickly passed when I saw the look on my best friend's face and realized that I was really sick. I was an accomplice to my brother's suicide My official diagnosis was generalized anxiety disorder, major depression and obsessive compulsive disorder. I discovered that there is a legacy of depression in my family. Once I was released, I began to see a therapist and a psychiatrist who prescribed the right combination of medication that has worked for me ever since. My now-husband's unrelenting support and my family's love have gotten me through the past two years. None of them judged me and I needed that to compensate for my self-judgment. My children kept me functional during my "zombie period" when my medication and therapy was just starting to work. I HAD to get up and move for them. They still needed their mom. Even if I was broken. Other non-medication strategies that help me with my illnesses are exercise (I truly believe running has saved my life); sleep (no less than 7 hours a night); and setting aside one day a week when I do not schedule client appointments, answer work e-mails or phone calls, or volunteer for work-related activities. No exceptions or guilt allowed. This is for my health and I get that now. What doesn't help? Hearing people say if I had a "positive attitude" or would "stop being so negative" or maybe just "believed in God a little more/ better/ faithfully, etc." I would be absolutely fine. During a depressive episode, all this does is make me feel hopeless and like more of a failure. Now, all these months later, I understand what I could and should have done differently. I could have asked for help. I should have reached out sooner. I might have recognized that what I was feeling was biological and not my fault. This was not a weakness or a character flaw. Speaking publicly about my attempt, healing and my occasional trips and falls on the way to a healthy future has saved me. I am very open about how I felt and what I did. I was afraid I would lose my career, or even my children, for speaking so openly about my illness, but it has brought nothing but positive returns so far. I have an overwhelming sense that I survived for a reason. I want to tell my story to help people, so no one else feels like I did. I want to help the people left behind, so they don't feel responsible for their loved one's death. I want to speak for those who completed suicide and let people know how much pain they were in. The pain and the disease were to blame. There are days when I wake up wondering if I will be OK today, and days I wish I hadn't woken up at all. But still no days that are like that terrible, numb, bloody day back in November 2012. I believe wholeheartedly there will be a difference made in how society views mental illness. And I pray it is in my lifetime. If you are in crisis, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255). They have trained counselors available 24/7 to provide free, confidential help.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/07/health/time-avoid-dying/index.html	health	6 ways to avoid dying before your time - CNN.com	2014/05/07	Wednesday May 7 07:08:50 EDT 2014	(TIME.com) -- With so many of the deaths each year from around the world directly related to poor health choices we make, world health leaders have set a goal of lowering the number of preventable deaths by 25% from 2010 rates by 2025. That would save 37 million lives over 15 years. Reporting in the journal Lancet, public health experts note that the way to prevent those deaths aren't surprising. But acting on those strategies will take individual and political will. Here's how the experts hope to do it. Not smoking The UN General Assembly set a target of cutting smoking around the world by 30% by 2025. Already, higher-income nations that have adopted smoking bans in public places and instituted tobacco taxes have seen drops in smoking rates, although residents in lower income nations continue to light up at high rates. Limiting excessive drinking While moderate amounts of alcohol have been linked to some health benefits, overindulging can increase the risk of certain cancers and liver disease, as well as contribute to high blood pressure. Educating people about the risks of excessive drinking, as well as instituting taxes on alcoholic products have been somewhat successful in curbing abuse. Cutting back on salt High sodium diets can increase blood pressure and contribute to heart disease and stroke, and in many developed countries, people eat several times the amount the salt their bodies need. In the U.S., the average American consumes about 800mg more salt every day than health experts consider acceptable. Promoting alternatives, such as the citric acid in lemons, to satisfy the need for salt, can help to bring sodium consumption down. CDC: 5 things cause two-thirds of U.S. deaths Getting blood pressure under control Lack of exercise and high sodium diets contribute to hypertension, and uncontrolled high blood pressure can lead to stroke and heart disease. Monitoring blood pressure with regular screenings, and treating elevated levels with changes in diet and exercise, or medications if necessary, are the most effective ways to address this risk factor. Address diabetes Closely tied to the obesity epidemic that now affects developing as well as developed nations, diabetes can increase the risk of heart disease, kidney disease and other conditions that can shorten life. Studies show that lifestyle changes incorporating healthy diets low in sugar and physical activity can be as effective as medications in keeping blood sugar levels in check. Reducing obesity The global growth in girth is tied to a number of factors, from the proliferation of processed and high calorie foods, to the shift toward sedentary lifestyles. Addressing obesity alone could also have beneficial effects in lowering other chronic conditions such as heart disease, diabetes and hypertension. Public health campaigns highlighting the high calorie content of fast and processed foods, and programs that provide access to fresh fruits and vegetables, including in schools, could be important steps in turning the tide of the global obesity epidemic. This article was initially published on TIME.com. 6 ways to avoid dying before your time  &copy 2012 TIME, Inc. TIME is a registered trademark of Time Inc.  Used with permission. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/12/health/brain-mind-reading/index.html	health	Scan a brain, read a mind? - CNN.com	2014/04/12	Saturday Apr 12 09:13:17 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- What we write online may be intercepted, filtered and publicized, but we'd like to think that the thoughts and images in our heads are totally private. For better or worse, science may change that. Over the last few years, researchers have made significant strides in decoding our thoughts based on brain activity. How this would work is still at the very early stages of development. But, given what we can already do, it's not a huge leap to imagine that one day we could read the words of people's internal streams of thought, said Jack Gallant, a prominent neuroscientist at the University of California, Berkeley. "I think decoding the little person in your brain -- we could do that today if we had a good enough method of measuring your brain activity," Gallant said. Gallant predicts that in 50 years, thought-reading will be commonplace. We'll be wearing "Google Hats," he envisions, that are continuously decoding our thoughts. Such a wonder-cap might transmit and even translate our thoughts into foreign languages. But Dr. Josef Parvizi, a Stanford University neurologist who also studies the relationship between brain and mind, is much more skeptical. "In order to really read thoughts with methods that are noninvasive, we have a long way to go," he said. "I think it is unwise and simply false to give the general public the impression that we are about to be able to read minds." What you need to read thoughts There are several limitations on "mind reading" directly from the brain, Gallant said. You need good mathematical models of brain function and high-speed computing. But the biggest challenge right now is measuring brain activity. Scientists can measure electrical activity with EEG (electroencephalography) and changes in blood oxygen use with fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging). But these are really crude measurements of what's happening inside the brain. EEG is a two-dimensional, limited signal from the brain. And fMRI is like measuring the total electricity usage in your office at specific times to figure out what's going on at everyone's desk, Gallant said. That wouldn't tell you what any particular person is working on; it's just a rough overall description of changes. "The most optimistic estimates are that you can recover one one-millionth of the information that's available in the brain at any given point in time," Gallant said. "It's probably smaller than that. So, where we are today is just measuring a pale shadow of what you could potentially measure, if you had a better measurement technology." Meanwhile, Parvizi's lab explores the brain with a completely different technique, making use of electrodes implanted in the brains of patients with severe epilepsy to do direct neural recordings at the brain's surface. His group wants to know the specific functions of different brain areas so when surgeons cut out parts responsible for seizures, they know what to avoid. This method, however, has so far not extracted the actual content of thoughts and memories, and may not be generalizable to non-epileptic patients. What we can do now Despite these limitations of brain activity measurement, scientists have already been able to achieve remarkable results. For instance, using fMRI scans, scientists can reconstruct a face that a person is viewing, as reported in a March 2014 study in the journal Neuroimage. The study was led by Alan Cowen, then an undergraduate at Yale University, who now studies with Gallant in graduate school. Researchers analyzed how subjects responded to 300 faces while receiving fMRI scans, creating a statistical "library" of the way the brain reacts to facial images. They then used a computer algorithm to generate a mathematical description of the faces based on brain activity patterns. Then, researchers scanned the six participants again while they viewed a new set of faces. By comparing the fMRI data from the 300 faces to the new scans, scientists were able to digitally draw the second set of faces that the participants saw based on brain activity. The computer-reconstructed faces were not exact, but people were able to identify them, and researchers could sufficiently compare the pixel information between the reconstructions and originals by computer, accurately matching them between 60% and 70% of the time. Marvin Chun, professor of psychology at Yale who co-authored the study, said it could have applications for studying disorders where perception of faces is impaired, such as prosopagnosia and autism. "We're very excited about it, because any increasing ability to read out activity from the brain and map it onto something useful like faces is going to have very broad usage scientifically," Chun said. This research was inspired by studies that Gallant's group had done on determining which photographs people saw based on fMRI scans. Gallant and colleagues have also demonstrated this with videos; their 2011 study in Current Biology used fMRI and computational models to reconstruct movie clips that people viewed. Even dreams may be knowable. Scientists led by Tomoyasu Horikawa at ATR Computational Neuroscience Laboratories, Kyoto, published a report last year in the journal Science suggesting it is possible to decode dreams based on brain activity in slumbering subjects, although this is also early stage research. Such feats have a certain magical quality. But they still involve large, bulky machinery that can capture only a small slice of our conscious experience. Can brain scientists read your mind? Scientists are also looking at how two brains can communicate with each other. A group at the University of Washington demonstrated last year that by sending brain signals over the Internet, one scientist could control another scientist's hand motion. But the recipient of the signal was not actively interpreting it; true two-way brain communication has been achieved in mice not but yet humans. Neither Gallant nor Parvizi are primarily interested in decoding thoughts. Their fundamental goals involve understanding how the brain does what it does. Nonetheless, their research has generated a lot of interest, and also hype about mind reading that is concerning to Parvizi. "I don't think it serves science well, and I don't think it makes the general public appreciate how difficult it is to really understand the operation of the human brain," Parvizi said. The future  Beyond the novelty of "thinking" an e-mail, there are other important applications to this line of research. Thought-directed wheelchairs, artificial limbs and other assistance devices would be a huge benefit to people with paralysis and other disabilities. Scientists are making strides in this area in small studies. Gallant's group is working on modeling how the brain responds to language and represents language in your mind. Chun is working on studying attention, looking at what happens when people's minds are wandering out of "the zone" of experience. Then there's the problem of memory, which Parvizi is working on: How your brain retrieves memories from the past. "We can accurately decode that the patient is retrieving memories but we cannot decipher the memory content," he said. The issue of mind reading brings up important ethical and public policy questions about privacy. Who can have access to your thoughts, and can you choose to keep certain things to yourself, or will even your strangest dreams be readily accessible? How will we control the use of mind-reading devices? The actual technology may be far off, but Gallant insisted, "We need to start thinking about this now." Follow Elizabeth Landau on Twitter at @lizlandau READ: How the brain makes moral judgments  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/02/health/brain-maps/index.html	health	New maps may hold clues to brain mysteries - CNN.com	2014/04/02	Wednesday Apr 2 06:15:08 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The many connections between different parts of the brain have no street signs or trail markers. But in order to better explore this complicated organ that enables us to be conscious, thinking, alert beings, scientists need maps. Big maps. Two studies released Wednesday in the journal Nature showcase brain maps that could have implications for understanding both healthy and impaired brains. One study reveals the most complete map ever of how parts of the brain are connected in a mouse. The other illuminates the developing human brain in terms of genetic expression -- specifically, which genes are responsible for generating different types of neurons, and how brain circuits are formed. The leaders of both studies likened their respective brain maps to "Google Maps." The studies represent different, complementary ways of understanding the brain. This research was published one year after President Barack Obama announced the $100 million BRAIN Initiative, which "aims to help researchers find new ways to treat, cure, and even prevent brain disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, and traumatic brain injury." The mouse brain, as never before The issue of brain connectivity has been an important research topic for the last century, said Hongkui Zeng, senior director of research science at the Allen Institute for Brain Science in Seattle. But it has been hard to gain insights about the entire brain by combining individual studies, because particular researchers have focused on different parts of the brain. "Now is the time for us to generate a comprehensive map in a systematic way because of the advancements of imaging technology and advancements of computing power," she said. Zeng and colleagues took on this daunting task. They standardized data about connectivity in the whole brain of a mouse. Full study from Nature Researchers say their map is the first ever detailing the connectivity of neurons in a whole brain of any mammal. Scientists have made this vast expanse of data -- hundreds of terabytes -- publicly available. "This kind of database would facilitate the study of many, many different researchers in almost any area of brain research," Zeng said. There are several important uses for this brain map. Scientists looking at disease models could compare Zeng's group's descriptions of brain wiring to brains that are impaired in various ways, to see what effects different conditions have on brain connectivity. This could open new avenues in the study of Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, autism, schizophrenia and other brain abnormalities. "This really sets the stage for us now to be able to compare a normal animal versus a disease model, to gain fuller understanding of what is going on in the diseased brain," she said. Researchers who are interested in finding out what functions specific brain regions have could use this map to see how different areas are connected. Looking at the circuitry of the brain could help guide their studies, Zeng said. Scientists building computational models of the brain, seeking to understand how networks operate in the brain, can also benefit from looking at these maps. It's important to note that mouse and human brains are similarly structured, but they are nowhere near the same in size or capability. With about 86 billion neurons, the human brain contains more than 1,000 times more of these cells than the mouse brain. Our brains are also 2,000 times bigger than a mouse brain, Zeng said. Fundamental insights about brain circuitry and impairment often begin with rodent models before being expanded to humans. But we need to also explore the human brain for a fuller picture of behavior and disease. Zeng and colleagues are in talks with the Human Brain Project, the European initiative that aims to computationally simulate the entire human brain. The Nature paper on connectivity will be "an important foundation for them," Zeng said. Human brain development While the mouse brain study showed connections, a second study from scientists at the Allen Institute explored genetics in the developing human brain. This report unveils a map showing where various genes are turned off and on in a fetus in the middle of pregnancy, which may help explore the origins of brain problems. "We can really use that now to pinpoint where a set of genes associated with a disease may have a common action," said senior study author Ed Lein. Full study from Nature This is the first big study incorporating data from the BrainSpan Atlas of the Developing Human Brain, an effort aiming to study the role of gene expression in the brain during all of human development, including adulthood. To generate the genetic blueprint of the developing brain in this study, scientists used four human fetus brains, between 15 and 21 weeks gestation, which had been donated. This is thought to be a critical period for the emergence of neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism, Lein said. Impacts to a brain region called the neocortex as it is forming could have long-lasting effects, he said. Researchers used information from the maps to look at genes that previously had been linked to autism in the developing brain. They found that genes associated with autism tended to be particularly active in newly generated excitatory neurons of the cortex. These cells send information from one part of the brain to another, he said. "This provides a place to focus more research," Lein said. "It suggests on the one hand that these genes may be (activated) prenatally, and on the other hand we actually have a place to look in the brain, which is the development and maturation of these new neurons." Taking the new maps, researchers studying other developmental disorders can take a similar approach. This map can also reveal ways in which humans are genetically different from other species. For one thing, it's important to understand the differences between mice and humans, since mice are used so often in biomedical research and neuroscience. But what about what makes us genetically special? Lein and colleagues found that genes that appear unique to humans tend to be expressed particularly in the frontal cortex, which is a part of the neocortex, and is responsible for many higher cognitive capabilities. This also may provide clues that future research can follow. READ: How your brain makes moral judgments CNN's Alex Mooney contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/27/health/urban-ptsd-problems/index.html	health	PTSD from your ZIP code: Urban violence and the brain - CNN.com	2014/03/27	Thursday Mar 27 07:21:29 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Nightly gunshots wake Veronica Morris. When the community organizer walks down her block in Chicago's Englewood neighborhood, she is reminded of the officer who was shot there. Violence even surrounded her high school. Shots constantly rang out around the streets by the school building. Her junior year, a police car crashed right in front of her class. "The violence is something we deal with daily and it's a real struggle," Morris said. "You get scared and youth here are angry when their friends are shot. The violence really does something to a person." "It's sometimes bigger than the crime itself," Morris said. "It affects you more, maybe even more than the person injured, because it lingers." Studies show her experience is shared by thousands of Americans who live in tough urban areas. A growing number of programs treat post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in war veterans. But far fewer treat Americans who suffer from the PTSD that comes with their ZIP code. And this kind of PTSD may be affecting even more people. PTSD can directly hurt a person's brain by messing with the amygdala -- the part of the brain that triggers a chemical to release to help you decide between "fight or flight" in a threatening situation. If someone is exposed to prolonged, repetitive, or extreme trauma, the amygdala stays in alert mode. And the neurons, the pathways to this part of the brain, lose their ability to recover. A person's memory becomes corrupted like a bad computer hard drive and it can hurt a person's ability to separate out new experiences and determine whether they are safe or dangerous. The longer a person stays in the hyper-vigilant mode, the greater the chance of permanent damage. In a child, damage can be magnified and lead to problems like dissociative identity disorder. Chicago anti-violence program didn't do much, audit finds A recent study that ran in the American Journal of Orthopsychiatry found that you don't even need a direct experience of a violent crime to be hurt by it. When there is a perception that there is disorder in a particular neighborhood, it causes some residents to suffer from PTSD. While the overall rate of violent crime has gone down in the United States -- so much that some sociologists call this the era of the "Great Crime Decline" -- there are still pockets where violent crime is so concentrated that neighbors can't escape it. After interviewing some 8,000 people in Atlanta, Emory University professor of psychiatry Dr. Kerry Ressler and his colleagues say that they are seeing evidence of higher rates of PTSD in this urban population than in war veterans. "It's outrageous. This is -- well, it is not an epidemic of violence, that is not the right term for this. This is a pandemic," Ressler said. An epidemic is concentrated in a particular region. A pandemic is spread over a wider geographic area and impacts a much larger population. "We are seeing the same (high instances of PTSD) in cities like D.C. and Chicago and L.A." In surveying patients picked at random from Atlanta's Grady Memorial Hospital -- one of the busiest Level 1 trauma centers in the United States -- Ressler and his team found that at least half knew someone who had been murdered. Some two-thirds said they had been victims of a violent assault. A third had been sexually assaulted. This wide range of trauma experience meant that 32% of this population suffered PTSD symptoms. In continuing these surveys, the team wants a better scientific understanding about the lasting consequences of living in violent neighborhoods, Ressler said. "We find you don't only lose a generation to this violence," in terms of the people who are directly hurt, he said. Instead, "you are losing multiple generations (to the violence) in these war-torn inner cities." "With pandemic levels of disorder there are serious consequences," Ressler says. The violence "makes it harder for kids to go through school or to play by the rules. It makes it harder for a parent to get a job or avoid addiction to drugs." Community leaders often talk about education being key to lifting people from poverty, but Ressler believes that won't be enough. "It is important to have programs like Head Start to help begin to break the cycle of poverty with education, but if we are not doing something for people's mental health, we may not be able to change this cycle," Ressler said. The chances that young men who experience trauma in their neighborhood will end up in jail are astronomically high, studies show.  Studies have also shown a high correlation between neighborhood disorder and physical abuse. There are further cognitive consequences as well. A study by Andrew Papachristos, a Yale sociology professor, found that some neighborhoods in Chicago have seen high violent crime rates for decades. Frequent violence has dramatically limited academic achievement in these neighborhoods. Exposure to violence is associated with cognitive and emotional stress that can lead to reductions in working memory. Another study looking at local violence in Chicago found that children who lived within 1,500 feet of a homicide had lower verbal and impulse control scores a week after the incident happened. Tests of older students showed similar results. She survived a standoff with a gunman -- could you? This concept that "deteriorated" neighborhoods have an impact on one's mental health is not new. At least 70 years ago, Chicago school researchers Robert E.L. Faris and H. Warren Dunham went through 30,000 psychiatric hospital admission records. They found high rates of substance abuse and even schizophrenia in these neighborhoods. Later studies found that high rates of depression were also common. One compounding problem is that there is an overall element of mistrust in rougher neighborhoods, studies show. People feel powerless to change their overall circumstances; therefore, PTSD -- which carries symptoms of hyper-vigilance, social separation and avoidance -- may amplify that mistrust. In an absence of a national public policy to address this serious problem, there are a handful of nonprofits that have overcome some of that neighborhood mistrust. Cure Violence, one of those nonprofits, takes a public health approach to violence prevention. Epidemiologist Dr. Gary Slutkin started the program after returning from Africa, where he had been fighting tuberculosis and AIDS epidemics. When he returned to Chicago, he saw similar patterns in outbreaks of violence and thought an epidemiological approach may stop it. Cure Violence concentrates its efforts on those who are at highest risk to cause violence. Workers living in the tougher Chicago neighborhoods listen for trouble. When they hear rumblings about a fight brewing, they intervene, talk to involved parties and try to mediate the problem before it escalates into violence. They also work with at-risk individuals to develop a plan to reject violence, whether that be through anger management, job training or substance abuse programs. "If we can stop the violence and stop people's exposure to the violence early, we reduce its impact from spreading through the community," said Charlie Ransford, Cure Violence spokesman. Morris, meanwhile, is turning her experience growing up in a tough neighborhood into motivation to organize it. She's led highly visible protests to raise awareness of the consequences of violence. "I always believe in hope, and I feel as an organizer that we've got to reinvest in these communities so that more of us won't have to continue to live this way," Morris said. Mother loses both sons in 19 days to gun violence Ressler hopes there will be some kind of public policy initiative to address the consequences of violence before it is too late. "By having a lifetime of trauma baggage and coming from multiple generations with trauma baggage, this is hard to overcome without help," Ressler said. There will be trouble, he said, "if we don't start paying attention soon." More from the series: How you make moral judgments This is your brain on knitting  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/jim-carrey-commencement-speech/index.html	entertainment	Jim Carrey's inspiring commencement speech - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 09:48:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Leave it to Jim Carrey to turn a commencement speech into a show and tell. The actor brought along some of his artwork to share Saturday with the graduates of the Maharishi University of Management in Fairfield, Iowa. And the actor offered the Class of 2014 inspiring words about life and their future. "Like many of you, I was concerned about going out into the world and doing something bigger than myself, until someone smarter than myself made me realize that there is nothing bigger than myself," the "Dumb and Dumber" star said. "My soul is not contained within the limits of my body; my body is contained within the limitlessness of my soul." The funnyman got serious when discussing his father and the things he learned from him. "My father could have been a great comedian, but he didn't believe that that was possible for him, and so he made a conservative choice," Carrey said. "Instead he got a safe job as an accountant." All of that fell apart, the actor said, when his dad lost his job and the family fell on hard times. "I learned many great lessons from my father, not the least of which, was that you can fail at what you don't want, so you might as well take a chance on doing what you love," he said. The speech received a rousing reaction from the graduating students of the institution, which according to its website is a place where "all students and faculty ... practice the Transcendental Meditation technique." Carrey jokingly thanked, "The trustees, the administrators, the faculty of MUM for creating an institution worthy of Maharishi's ideals of education as well as enabling the students through transcendental meditation and ancient vedic knowledge to slack off twice a day for an hour and a half." He also received an honorary degree of doctor of fine arts during the ceremony.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/showbiz/tv/sharknado-week-syfy-ew/index.html	entertainment	Syfy announces 'Sharknado Week' around 'Sharknado 2' premiere - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 05:18:47 EDT 2014	(EW.com ) -- As Tracy Jordan once said on "30 Rock:" Live every week like it's Shark Week. Syfy seems to be taking that maxim to heart, announcing its own Shark Week of sorts (Sorry, Discovery), pegged to the upcoming release of "Sharknado 2: The Second One." "Sharknado 2," is, of course, a sequel to last year's super-buzzy, low-budget television movie, "Sharknado." "Sharknado Week" will air July 26 through August 2; Sharknado 2 premieres Wed. July 30. Also in the programming block? Roger Corman's "Sharktopus vs. Pteracuda" (August 2), Mega Shark vs. Mecha Shark (July 26), and "Sharkmania: The Top 15 Biggest Baddest Bloodiest Bites" (July 27). No one could forget the plot of "Sharknado 2," but here's Syfy's description once again: "A freak weather system turns its deadly fury on New York City, unleashing a Sharknado on the population and its most cherished iconic sites -- and only Fin (Ian Ziering) and April (Tara Reid) can save the Big Apple. The movie, directed by Anthony C. Ferrante from a screenplay by Thunder Levin, also stars Mark McGrath, Kari Wuhrer, Vivica A. Fox and Judah Friedlander, with cameo appearances including Kelly Osbourne, Judd Hirsch, Perez Hilton, Matt Lauer, Al Roker, Andy Dick, Robert Klein, Sandra "Pepa" Denton, Biz Markie, Downtown Julie Brown, Richard Kind and Kurt Angle, among others." The week might become an annual thing  Syfy has already ordered a third Sharknado. See the original story at EW.com.   CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/bill-murray-bachelor-party/index.html	entertainment	Bill Murray joins bachelor party - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 03:27:30 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Your outing is destined to be second-class unless Bill Murray joins the festivities. Sure, it doesn't happen to everybody, but when it does, expect good times from America's favorite guest -- just ask some karaoke fans or kickball players. This time, it was a bachelor party in Charleston, South Carolina. Deadspin has the video and offers this background via one of the attendees: "At one point during dinner at a steakhouse, one guy goes to the bathroom downstairs and sees Bill Murray sitting with some people with a fishing vest on," said the partygoer, identified only as Stephen. "We talked to the waiter to see if we could send him some drinks, to which Bill declined. "One of my buddies then went down and asked if he'd come up and say a few words for (the groom) EJ and got a 'No thanks.' My buddy comes back up dejected and tells us it's not going to happen. Two minutes later, Bill f***ing Murray walks into the room and gives this speech." Speaking to the 20 members of the bachelor party, Murray offered this advice on finding "The One." "Take that person and travel around the world," Murray said. "Buy a plane ticket for the two of you to travel all around the world, and go to places that are hard to go to and hard to get out of. And if when you come back to JFK, when you land in JFK, and you're still in love with that person, get married at the airport." Murray was most recently seen in Wes Anderson's film "The Grand Budapest Hotel."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/showbiz/music/rolling-stones-tour-return/index.html	entertainment	Rolling Stones on tour 2 months after death of Jagger's girlfriend - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 10:13:42 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Ladies and gentlemen, the Rolling Stones are back on tour. The "world's greatest rock 'n' roll band" resumed its #StonesOnFire trek, part of its 50th-anniversary travels around the globe, with a show Monday night in Oslo, Norway. The group's tour had been put on hold since the March 17 death of Mick Jagger's girlfriend, fashion designer L'Wren Scott. Scott's death, which was ruled a suicide, stunned Jagger, who had been with the designer and former model since 2003. "I am still struggling to understand how my lover and best friend could end her life in this tragic way. We spent many wonderful years together and had made a great life for ourselves. She had great presence and her talent was much admired, not least by me," he said in a statement two months ago. Scott left her $9 million estate to Jagger, according to the late fashion designer's will. Though she had reportedly been having financial difficulties, a representative for Scott said, "The figures quoted in the media regarding the financial status of LS Fashion Limited are not only highly misleading and inaccurate but also extremely hurtful and disrespectful to the memory of L'Wren Scott." The Stones were in Australia at the time of her death, and the band canceled seven shows there and in New Zealand. The shows have been rescheduled for October and November, according to the Stones' official site. The Stones' Oslo set list included "Jumpin' Jack Flash," "All Down the Line," "Let's Spend the Night Together," "Emotional Rescue" and a version of "You Can't Always Get What You Want" accompanied by the Edvard Grieg Youth Choir.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/maya-angelou-speeches/index.html	entertainment	Maya Angelou: Some of her most powerful speeches - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 11:27:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- More than anything, Maya Angelou was known for her words. From her books to her orations, Angelou used language to stir her audiences and reach into their hearts. Here is a sampling of some of her most powerful speeches: 1) Presidential Inauguration Ceremony, 1993 She became the second poet in history to speak at a presidential inauguration -- after Robert Frost, who spoke at John F. Kennedy's inaugural -- when she read her poem "On the Pulse of Morning" at the swearing-in of President Bill Clinton in 1993. 2) 2013 National Book Awards Angelou was selected to receive the Literarian Award for Outstanding Service to the American Literary Community. She sang and offered moving words of gratitude. 3) The funeral of Coretta Scott King, 2008 The writer sang and spoke at the homegoing service for the widow of the Rev. Martin Luther King -- calling her "born of flesh and destined to become iron." Angelou was active in the civil rights movement and knew the Kings. 4) The Children's Defense Fund National Conference, 2012 Angelou shared one of her poems as the keynote speaker at the Children's Defense Fund National Conference held in Cincinnati in July 2012. Her words live on. Opinion: How Maya Angelou gave me life  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/showbiz/movies/robert-de-niro-gay-father/index.html	entertainment	De Niro opens up about his gay father - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 01:01:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Robert De Niro says it was his "responsibility" to make a documentary about his father, artist Robert De Niro Sr., he told Out magazine in an interview. De Niro's father was a gay man who divorced De Niro's mother when the actor was a child. The elder De Niro is the subject of a new documentary, "Remembering the Artist: Robert De Niro, Sr.," which premieres on HBO June 9. (HBO, like CNN, is a unit of Time Warner.) In a chat with Out, De Niro says that though he and his father weren't close -- he grew up with his mother -- the senior De Niro had a profound influence on his actor son. De Niro wants to pay tribute in the documentary, partly for the sake of his own children. "We were not the type of father and son who played baseball together, as you can surmise. But we had a connection," he said. "I wasn't with him a lot, because my mother and he were separated and divorced. ... But my father wasn't a bad father, or absent. He was absent in some ways. He was very loving. He adored me ... as I do my kids." De Niro Sr. was an abstract expressionist painter who was part of an art community that also produced Jackson Pollock, Willem De Kooning and Mark Rothko. As his son notes, when De Niro Sr. had his studio in downtown Manhattan, an area now full of multimillion-dollar apartments, the area was "Siberia." De Niro Sr. died in 1993 and his son has maintained his studio in New York's SoHo neighborhood ever since. "This space is here, and in 20 years, people won't know what a real space like this will be unless it was in a museum and they recreated it," he said. He had the contents catalogued and has kept them intact. He says he was only dimly aware of his father's sexuality growing up. "I was not aware, much, of it. I wish we had spoken about it much more. My mother didn't want to talk about things in general, and you're not interested when you're a certain age," he said. But both his father and mother gave him the drive to succeed, he added. "When I was young, I wasn't afraid of being told 'No,'" he said. "I tell my kids, I tell everyone, 'If you don't go, you never know.' I didn't take it as rejection. Certain things are stacked against you. You're coming out of nowhere, starting out  that's part of the excitement of it in a way, too." In the film, De Niro also reads from his father's diaries, which he's still working through, he said. He may share more of them publicly -- "That's part of his legacy, too," he said -- though he wants to talk to others first. But the important thing, he said, is getting the whole story out. "You can't hide anything. That's the whole point -- the truth. That's what people are attracted to," the actor said. "I should have done this 10 years earlier, but I'm glad I did it now."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/tupac-last-words-rs/index.html	entertainment	Tupac's final words revealed by police officer on scene of murder - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 02:21:49 EDT 2014	(RollingStone.com) -- The first police officer at the scene of Tupac Shakur's 1996 drive-by murder has revealed the last words spoken by the late rap legend. And they're not exactly peaceful. "He looked at me, and he took a breath to get the words out, and he opened his mouth," says Chris Carroll, a retired sergeant with the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, in a new feature with Vegas Seven. "And then the words came out: 'F**k you.'" Rolling Stone: 50 Greatest Hip-Hop Songs of All Time Shakur was shot multiple times on September 7th, 1996. After leaving a boxing match with former Death Row Records CEO Suge Knight, the rapper and his bodyguards got into a scuffle with 21-year-old Crips gang member Orlando Anderson in the lobby of the MGM Grand casino. Carroll, who worked with the city's bike patrol unit, had also been watching the same Mike Tyson fight, but was unaware of the brawl taking place in the lobby. Later, a white Cadillac pulled up beside Knight and Shakur while they were stopped at a traffic light and one man began shooting out of the back window. Carroll was the first officer to respond to the grisly scene. "I grab the car door and I'm trying to open it, but I can't get it open," he says. "[Knight] keeps coming up on my back, so I'm pointing my gun at him. I'm pointing it at the car. I'm yelling, 'You guys lay down! And you, get the f**k away from me!' And every time I'd point the gun at him, he'd back off and even lift his hands up, like 'All right! All right!' So I'd go back to the car, and here he comes again. I'm like, 'F**ker, back off!' This guy is huge, and the whole time he's running around at the scene, he's gushing blood from his head. Gushing blood! I mean the guy had clearly been hit in the head, but he had all his faculties. I couldn't believe he was running around and doing what he was doing, yelling back and forth." Rolling Stone: Saul Williams to star in Tupac-inspired musical Carroll says when he finally was able to open the door, Shakur's limp body fell out of the vehicle, "like he was leaning against the door." "So I grabbed him with my left arm, and he falls into me, and I've still got my gun in the other hand," he continues. "He's covered with blood, and I immediately notice that the guy's got a ton of gold on -- a necklace and other jewelry -- and all of the gold is covered in blood. That has always left an image in my mind. . . After I pulled him out, Suge starts yelling at him, 'Pac! Pac!' And he just keeps yelling it. And the guy I'm holding is trying to yell back at him. He's sitting up and he's struggling to get the words out, but he can't really do it. And as Suge is yelling 'Pac!,' I look down and I realize that this is Tupac Shakur." Carroll says he attempted to get a "dying declaration" of a potential suspect from Shakur, but the rapper was ignoring him at first. "And then I saw in his face, in his movements, all of a sudden in the snap of a finger, he changed," he says. "And he went from struggling to speak, being noncooperative, to an 'I'm at peace' type of thing. Just like that. . . He went from fighting to 'I can't do it.' And when he made that transition, he looked at me, and he's looking right in my eyes. And that's when I looked at him and said one more time, 'Who shot you?'. . . He looked at me and he took a breath to get the words out, and he opened his mouth, and I thought I was actually going to get some cooperation. And then the words came out: 'F**k you.' After that, he started gurgling and slipping out of consciousness." Rolling Stone: Kendrick Lamar covers Tupac at iHeartRadio Awards So why is Carroll coming forward with with information in 2014? Two reasons: Retiring from the Metro has allowed him the freedom to speak about the homicide case without being reprimanded ("It's been almost 18 years," he says. There's clearly never going to be a court case on this."), and he also didn't want "Tupac to be a martyr or a hero because he told the cops 'F**k you.'" Carroll says Shakur never spoke another word -- remaining silent even when another officer tried to draw out a declaration in the ambulance. "As soon as he got to the hospital, he went into surgery and was heavily sedated, and I guess he went into a coma and really never came out of that, until they took him off of life support," he continues. "So that moment I talked to him was his last real living moment where he was speaking. I talked to the cop who rode in the ambulance with him. He said Tupac never came out of it, and he never said anything at the hospital. There was nothing else." See the original story at RollingStone.com.   Copyright  2011 Rolling Stone. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/showbiz/music/japan-paul-mccartney-hospital/index.html	entertainment	Paul McCartney on road to recovery from virus in Japan - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 09:56:30 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Paul McCartney is almost "Out There," again. The former Beatle is on the road to recovery after falling ill during his "Out There" tour in Asia, where he was forced to postpone shows in Japan. "Since contracting a virus last week that led to the postponement of tour dates, Paul received successful medical treatment at a hospital in Tokyo," according to a statement posted Thursday on his official website. "He'll make a complete recovery and has been ordered to take a few days rest." Cancellations are rare for McCartney, who has proven an iron man while maintaining a global tour schedule over the past several years. He'll turn 72 in June. McCartney plans to reschedule the shows at Tokyo's National Stadium, which were originally planned for May 18 and 19. Shows scheduled for May 21, at Tokyo's Nippon Budokan, and May 24, at Osaka's Yanmar Stadium Nagai, have also been postponed. The musician was touched by the messages of support, according to his site. "Paul has been extremely moved by all the messages and well wishes he has received from fans all over the world," the statement said. McCartney is currently performing in support of his album "New," which was released in October. His tour is scheduled to continue in Seoul, South Korea, on May 28, before coming to the United States on June 14. Fast Facts: Paul McCartney  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/showbiz/tv/robin-thicke-paula-patton-billboard-awards/index.html	entertainment	Robin Thicke is still trying to get Paula Patton back - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 05:11:48 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Robin Thicke isn't giving up on his marriage to Paula Patton. The couple, married since 2005, mutually decided to separate in February, and since then singer Thicke has been trying to win her back with his performances. It was speculated that Thicke might try such a gesture during his set at the Billboard Music Awards on Sunday. Sure enough, the R&B crooner appeared to make a not-so-veiled reference to his romantic life with a performance of "Get Her Back" during the ceremony. The new single has lyrics such as "all I want to do is make it right" and, "I miss you, I miss you so much, baby/I just want you to come back home." While Thicke never mentioned Patton by name during the performance, he did thank his "wife" for "her love and support and for putting up with me all these years" during an acceptance speech for Top R&B song. That also wouldn't be the first time Thicke's tried such a maneuver. Not long after the couple announced their separation,Thicke took the stage in Virginia and dedicated his hit "Lost Without You" to his wife. "I'm trying to get my girl back," he told the crowd. "She's a good woman." According to People magazine, Thicke's taking his tour of love to Tuesday night's "The Voice" finale as well. Patton, for her part, has been somewhat more demure about the couple's status. When Vanity Fair wanted to know if her relationship with Thicke had reached its end, the actress vaguely replied, "We've known each other since we were teenagers. All I can tell you is there's a deep love there -- always was, and always will be."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/showbiz/billboard-music-awards/index.html	entertainment	Billboard Music Awards: MJ 'hologram' and Kendall's flub get buzz - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 01:59:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Michael Jackson's "live" performance at the 2014 Billboard Music Awards brought a mixed reaction Sunday night. "Uncomfortable, odd and eerily interesting," is how public relations agent Simone Smalls summed it up in a tweet. "Not quite sure what to feel. #MissingMJ" Uncomfortable because Jackson died nearly five years ago while preparing for a comeback tour. His remains are resting in a crypt in a Forest Lawn mausoleum. But technology tricked viewers -- and the celebrity audience in the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas -- into suspending disbelief for a few minutes to watch the pop icon onstage dancing and singing his "new" song "Slave to the Rhythm." Ludacris, the rapper-actor who hosted the show, actually introduced it as "Live from the MGM Grand, Michael Jackson." "He's baaaccck!" Mark Cuban, the owner of an NBA team and TV channel, tweeted about Jackson's "hologram." Cuban added an Instagram video. He's baaaccck! http://t.co/1oUqHyMxrr The dance moves were not really Michael Jackson's but apparently those of a stand-in performer who recreated his steps for a computer that then laid on an image intended to replicate Jackson. But where was the swagger -- like Charlie Chaplin -- that characterized Jackson's cool walk? @AlanDukeCNN @MJFam4ever Look at (t)his face...disappointing. pic.twitter.com/yWHqHsTe1I "I wish it would have actually looked like him," one fan said. It was eerily interesting because the illusion was effective if you didn't watch too closely or weren't obsessively familiar with Jackson's dancing, walking and appearance. "I enjoyed it. Could have had better face but overall it was great. Will have it on repeat," a diehard Jackson fan tweeted.  #kendallyouhadonejob Imagine Ed Sullivan confusing the Beatles with the Beach Boys when he introduced the British group's first live U.S. television performance 50 years ago. That's the modern equivalent of what Kendall Jenner did at the Billboard Awards. Anndddd as if I wasn't nervous already!!!! #NeverLeavinMyContactsAtHomeAgain! #LOL #LessonLearned The reality TV personality, model and Kardashian half-sister caught herself halfway through introducing the Australian boy band 5 Seconds of Summer as One Direction. "Now, we welcome One... Guys, I'm the worst reader!" Jenner said as she dived below the camera shot. She quickly tossed to a video of the group -- which included a short clip comparing their arrival in the United States to the Beatles' 1964 invasion. Jenner never fully recovered. The television audience only heard her say "of Summer" when she resumed the intro after the video. Twitter had a blast with the 18-year-old's flub. Two hashtags soon trended: #kendallyouhadonejob and #KendalljennerItsFIVE I got my party pants on #Billboards http://t.co/C1dnDHaDXL But many -- including Jenner herself -- agreed on one thing. Kendall Jenner looked great on the red carpet. Lorde's message Lorde wants you to know she's no longer the young 15-year-old who recorded "Royals," a song that spent much of last summer at the top of the charts and was honored Sunday as the "top rock song." "What I wanted to say was that I am 17 and a half now," Lorde said as she accepted Billboard's top new artist award. When laughter erupted with that remark, she stopped to say "that wasn't a joke." Lorde's said she's had "the opportunity to grow and learn as a new artist" in the last year "in the spotlight." but srsly you guys i meant what i said in my speech! THANKYOU for giving me a chance to grow and get better - it's all you. She later performed "Tennis Court," another song from her younger years. The irony not lost on the Billboard audience is that many people are surprised to learn that the mature talking-acting-looking New Zealander is actually a teenager. #Lordeis17 became a trending topic on Twitter worldwide. Justin Timberlake: 'I Want to Thank Everybody on Earth...Except Donald Sterling'  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/18/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/beyonce-jay-z-movie-trailer/index.html	entertainment	Beyonce and Jay Z release star-studded trailer to promote tour - CNN.com	2014/05/18	Sunday May 18 11:34:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Jay Z and Beyonce continue to be full of surprises. In the midst of all of the hoopla surrounding the now well-known elevator incident involving the couple and Beyonce's younger sister, Solange Knowles, the superstar pair have released a "trailer" for their upcoming tour. The star-studded short features cameos from actors Jake Gyllenhaal (who is now part of meme history thanks to a recent courtside photo with the superstar couple), Sean Penn, Don Cheadle, "Scandal" actor Guillermo Daz, Blake Lively, Emmy Rossum, and sisters Rashida and Kidada Jones. Directed by Melina Matsoukas, who has worked with Beyonce on music videos, the minimovie is meant to promote the 16-city "On The Run" tour, which will mark the first time the singer and her rapper husband have toured jointly. In the trailer, the couple portray a pair of outlaw lovers seen making deals, executing a heist, running from the authorities and sharing tender moments in a hotel room. One scene shows them emerging from an elevator wearing masks -- which could be seen as a bit of irony, given the recent headlines following the release of a surveillance video showing Solange Knowles punching and kicking Jay Z in a hotel elevator while Beyonce stood nearby on the night of the Met Gala in New York City. The trio have since released a statement which says in part, "We love each other and above all we are family. We've put this behind us and hope everyone else will do the same." Music featuring the rap mogul and his wife play in the almost four-minute video, which hit the Web on Saturday. Titled "Run," it's listed as a joint production between Jay Z's Roc Nation and Beyonce's Parkwood Entertainment. The "On The Run" stadium tour kicks off June 25 in Miami.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/01/showbiz/michael-jackson-new-song/index.html	entertainment	Michael Jackson song from 1983 released; first single from 'new' album - CNN.com	2014/05/01	Thursday May 1 09:20:17 EDT 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- A song Michael Jackson recorded 31 years ago is out, the first single from the upcoming "Xscape" album. Jackson wrote, recorded and produced "Love Never Felt So Good" with Paul Anka in 1983, but it has been "contemporized" by Anka and Jackson estate co-executor John McClain, according to an Epic Records news release. The song has "a magic combination of the new and the original production that retains the track's analog, early 80s feel, while also sounding right at home with the disco-soul inflected music of today," the label said. The track debuted during the iHeartRadio Music Awards on Thursday night. Online music services, including iTunes, have it for downloading starting early Friday morning, Epic said. Jackson and Anka worked on the song at about the same time they wrote and recorded "This Is It," which eventually became the theme song to a documentary based on Jackson's preparations for a tour that never happened because of his death. Jackson died at age 50 on June 25, 2009, while preparing for his "This Is It" comeback tour. Eight previously unheard Michael Jackson songs, originally recorded between 1983 and 1999, will be released on the new album May 13, Epic Records announced in March. Epic Chairman L.A. Reid chose several producers with the "gravitas, depth and range to creatively engage with Jackson's work" to update the recordings for release, Epic said. New Michael Jackson album coming in May: 'Xscape'  Timbaland is the lead producer, with contributions from Rodney Jerkins, Stargate, Jerome "J-Roc" Harmon and McClain, the release said. A bonus version of "Love Never Felt So Good" features Justin Timberlake along with Jackson. Sony's Columbia Epic Records -- Jackson's record label for three decades -- signed a longterm deal with Jackson's estate to posthumously release music from the large archives of his recordings. Reid "was granted unlimited access to the treasures representing four decades of material on which Jackson had completed his vocals," the announcement said. "New" music is not always met with a warm reception from fans and the Jackson family. Some questioned the authenticity of the vocals on a 2010 album, although the estate and the record company said sound experts verified Jackson's voice.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/24/showbiz/game-of-thrones-america/index.html	entertainment	How 'Game of Thrones' is like America - CNN.com	2014/05/24	Saturday May 24 08:03:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A fire-breathing dragon has never vaporized a senator giving a pompous speech on C-SPAN. No candidate has ever poisoned a rival at his wedding reception, and no "white walker" zombie has ever dragged a screaming climate change skeptic away. Yet anyone who thinks HBO's popular "Game of Thrones" is just about kings and castles misses how much the show reflects contemporary America, several scholars, authors and fans of the show say. The fantasy TV series is set in the fictional kingdom of Westeros, where a small group of powerful families scheme against one another to seize control of the "iron throne." Look past the dragons and knights, though, and the show offers eerie political and racial parallels between the world of Westeros and the United States, fans and scholars say. Here are five of them: Only elites can play the game There is no middle class in "Game of Thrones." The "99%" of Westeros -- the peasants, innkeepers and farmers -- survive at the whim of a small group of wealthy families who treat them with indifference and cruelty. The HBO show is an adaptation of George R.R. Martin's series, "A Song of Ice and Fire." (HBO and CNN are both owned by Time Warner.) Martin modeled his books on medieval Europe, where there was a huge gap between the rich and poor, says Steven Attewell, author of "Race for the Iron Throne" and editor of a blog with the same title. Medieval thinkers justified that gap by using some of the same rhetoric people use today to explain poverty: It's the poor's fault. The poor were told that there was something inherently wrong with them: They were the descendants of Noah's son, Ham, a cursed Biblical figure, Attewell says. "They said that because the poor people are sons and daughters of Ham, it was God's will that they serve as peasants," Attewell says. "They also cited passages in the Bible that commanded obedience to the king and the servant to the master." Social mobility was extremely limited by modern standards, Attewell says. A typical peasant paid taxes to a lord who essentially owned him. "It was hard to get past the idea of a monarchy," Attewell says. "They didn't have examples of democracy. Even when you had a social revolution from below in this period, they didn't have an alternate model of government to look to." Neither does "Game of Thrones," because the rich control everything. They own the land and the political process, and the only contenders for the iron throne come from a small group of powerful dynastic families. The show's depiction of families fighting for control mirrors where U.S. politics could be headed, says Joshua Weikert, a political science professor from Albright College in Pennsylvania. The 2016 presidential election could well feature another Clinton vs. Bush contest if Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush decide to run. Could Americans one day say, without irony, "The House of Bush" or "The House of Clinton"? In the show, "two or three primary families trade off and form alliances to enhance their position," Weikert says. "Can we really see none of the Kennedys, Bushes and Clintons in these machinations?" When the rich control the political process, it's difficult for a country to remain a democracy, according to one of the most popular books in the United States.  "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" is not just a best-seller, it has become a cultural phenomenon. Thomas Piketty, a French economist, warns in his book that concentrating wealth at the top invariably corrodes democracy. He argues after studying two centuries of economic data that economic inequality is wired into the machinery of capitalism. And he says the United States is headed toward an aristocratic future resembling 19th century Europe, where powerful families sustained by inherited wealth rule the rest. There are no royal families in the United States, but Weikert says many Americans share the same sentiment as the jaded "99%" of Westeros: "The game is played among elites."  It's a man's world The late soul singer James Brown never makes an appearance in "Game of Thrones," but his song, "It's a Man's Man's Man's World," could be its unofficial soundtrack. There are no men pushing for gender equality in "Game of Thrones." Male characters unapologetically beat women, rape them and throw them away as if they're old sofas. Yet to paraphrase Brown, the show "wouldn't be nothing" without a cast of formidable female characters who refuse to play the roles assigned to them. The women of Westeros don't wait for knights to rescue them from dragons; one of them commands three dragons of her own. She is Daenerys Targaryen, the young sole survivor of a royal family. She starts as a timid pawn of men who violate her and treat her with contempt. She becomes a legendary warrior queen. The show's fan base is filled with women who identify with characters like Daenerys Targaryen. They revel in her ability to rise to the top in a male-dominated world, says Paul Levinson, a communications professor at Fordham University in New York. "They're seeing women in positions of power more and more," Levinson says. "Not only Hillary but people like (Sen.) Elizabeth Warren and Sarah Palin. Daenerys captures that aspect. She constantly gets the better of men." One of the most beloved characters in the show is Arya Stark, an adolescent girl who outthinks and out-toughs men. Born to a noble family, she rejects the notion that she must marry a lord and bear his children to be a successful woman. She forges herself into a skilled warrior to avenge her family's honor. "We gravitate to Arya because she provides a refreshing alternative to the damsels in distress we typically see in medieval dramas," says Jamie Adair, editor of the "History Behind the Game of Thrones" blog. "Arya's assertiveness speaks to our modern values. She's driven by revenge and she's willing to be ruthless." The show's portrayal of women is a reflection of a deeper message in Martin's "Game of Thrones" books: Kings may rule, but their rise and fall ultimately depends on the small folks, says Charli Carpenter, a political science professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. "What Martin has done is create a story about elite politics told through the viewpoint of the marginalized: women, prostitutes, bastards, dwarfs," says Carpenter, author of an essay in Foreign Affairs magazine entitled, "Game of Thrones as Theory."  Political paralysis jeopardizes the future In one of the most famous scenes in "Game of Thrones," another powerful woman, Cersei Lannister, the Queen of Westeros, schools a rival on political power. "When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die," she tells him. "There is no middle ground." Cersei Lannister isn't much for bipartisan cooperation. She would fit right into the current U.S. Congress, which is on its way to becoming the least productive and most ideologically divided one in history, according to some reports. (It's also the richest, as well as the first Congress where the majority of its members are millionaires, another report says). The price of political paralysis is one of biggest themes in "Game of Thrones" and a persistent theme in U.S. politics, scholars and fans say. In Westeros, leaders spend more time fighting one another than helping their subjects. Most are only driven by self-interest. They constantly question the right of other kings to rule. The kingdom even has its own version of a "birther" controversy: A king is accused of being illegitimate because his family hid his true lineage. The political paralysis in Westeros comes at a dangerous time. Feuding leaders ignore the real existential threat to their world. An army of ice-encrusted zombies called "white walkers" is mobilizing to destroy the kingdom and usher in an ice age. "Winter is coming," is the ominous conclusion one leader delivers after watching the deadly white walkers in action, but no one listens to him. You couldn't find a more apt comparison to feuding political leaders in the United States who are ignoring global warming, says Gordon Coonfield, a communications professor at Villanova University in Pennsylvania. "Multiple factions are so busy with infighting," he says, "that they are completely unaware or indifferent to a looming apocalypse." The rulers in "Game of Thrones" also ignore another looming political issue, fans and scholars say: Westeros, too, has an immigration problem no one wants to tackle. Instead, the rulers have relied on a giant wall originally built to keep out white walkers but now used to stop border crossings of an impoverished group the people of Westeros dismiss as "wildlings." The rhetoric used to justify the wall is similar to some of the language used in America's immigration debate, says Weikert, the political science professor at Albright College. "They say we need to make sure that 'they' don't come in here and ruin our society and culture," Weikert says. "Some people were lucky enough to be born on the 'right' side of the border and have an interest in keeping out those who are threatening the existing order." A nation lives beyond its means There are plenty of supernatural creatures and vicious villains in "Game of Thrones," but there is one entity that no one dares cross: The Iron Bank of Braavos. If you think the Wall Street money managers who almost ruined the global economy are heartless capitalists, you should meet the dreaded bureaucrats from the Iron Bank. It's the most powerful bank in the world of "Game of Thrones." It doesn't really care about the health of Westeros' economy or the poor people living on a "bowl of brown" in the kingdom's "Flea Bottom" ghetto. They just want their money, and they're willing to unleash chaos to get it. "The great thing about the bank," says Weikert, "is if you don't pay what you owe, they give loans to your enemy to overthrow you." Think of the Iron Bank as America's deficit, fans of the show say: It's an economic guillotine that hangs over the future, they say. Several kings of Westeros have amassed huge national debts because of Iron Bank loans, but they're afraid to tell their subjects that their country is living beyond its means. National debt, in the United States as in Westeros, scares political leaders. In "Game of Thrones," all leaders dread the Iron Bank's motto: "The Iron Bank will have its due." Race still matters There are no racial scandals in Westeros. No one secretly recorded a ruler dehumanizing another ethnic group. But that doesn't mean racial stereotypes in contemporary America haven't wormed their way into the show's scripts, some bloggers and authors say. Much of that criticism centers on the storyline involving Daenerys Targaryen, the exiled warrior queen. The pale, silver-haired leader liberates an army of black and brown slaves as she marches through a North African-like region, breaking the chains of oppressed peoples. It's thrilling stuff -- "Occupy Wall Street" with three fire-breathing dragons. Still, some critics say the plotline unwittingly resurrects a racial stereotype often used to justify U.S. imperialism: white saviors rescuing dark-skinned people from the barbarity of their ways. Whiteness is "both a conquering and civilizing force" in "Game of Thrones," stand-up comedian Aamer Rahman wrote in his blog. British blogger Shane Thomas called Targaryen's conquests the "save the coloureds" tour. Saladin Ahmed, author of "Throne of the Crescent Moon," says the show also reinforces some stereotypes about black and brown men in its depiction of the Dothraki people, a nomadic, brown-skinned tribe portrayed as hypersexual and hyperviolent. Even more fully drawn characters of color like Missandei, a regal woman who acts as Daenerys' translator and aide, slip into stereotypical behavior, Ahmed says. The actress who plays Missandei, Nathalie Emmanuel, is fantastic, but her character becomes a clich at times, Ahmed says. "She is the black best friend every white girl has," he says. "She has no story of her own. She has no desires or wants of her own. She's just there to give advice to Daenerys." With the introduction of new characters like Prince Oberyn Martell of Dorne, also known as the "Red Viper," there are hints the show may begin treating its characters of color with more complexity. But that day hasn't quite come yet, Ahmed says. The show, Ahmed says, "has the same problem Hollywood in general has: limiting actors of color to villains, best friends and martyrs for white people." "Game of Thrones" may yet evolve. Part of its appeal is its unpredictability. No one really knows where the story is headed because Martin is still adding books to his series and he's not afraid to kill beloved characters. Martin may yet give fans a happy ending. But as some Americans look ahead to their own country's future, they may also conclude: "Winter is coming."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/showbiz/shield-actor-michael-jace-homicide-charge/index.html	entertainment	'The Shield' actor Michael Jace officially charged with wife's murder - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 01:19:59 EDT 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- Actor Michael Jace has been formally charged with one count of murder with a gun in the shooting death of his wife, the prosecutor's spokeswoman said Thursday. April Jace, 40, died from "multiple gunshot wounds," according to preliminary autopsy results. The death was ruled a homicide by the Los Angeles County coroner, Deputy Chief Coroner Ed Winter said. Jace, 51, made his first appearance in a Los Angeles courtroom Thursday afternoon. Bail was set at $2 million, and his arraignment was continued until June 18 at the defense's request. "He's doing as well as somebody who is in custody," said Jason Sias, Jace's lawyer. "It's emotional. He wants to see this through. He's just thinking about his children." Los Angeles police detectives presented their evidence against Jace, who played a Los Angeles cop in TV's "The Shield," to the district attorney Thursday morning, according to spokeswoman Jane Robison. Police found April Jace shot to death in her south Los Angeles home Monday night, Det. Lyman Doster said. Michael Jace called 911 to report that his wife had been shot, Det. Dean Vinluan said, adding that he "was on the phone with the operator." Neighbors who heard gunshots also called 911, he said. "At this moment, the motive of the murder is believed to be domestic violence," a police statement this week said. Investigators detained Jace at the couple's Hyde Park-area home Monday night and booked the actor on a homicide charge early Tuesday, according to Doster. Two children were in the home when their mother was shot, Vinluan said. The children, whose ages he would not reveal, were taken to a police station and then handed over to a representative of California's Department of Children and Family Services, he said. Investigators have found no reports of domestic violence between the husband and wife at their south Los Angeles residence, another LAPD detective said. A woman described as a close friend of Jace's first wife said in a sworn statement that she witnessed Jace physically abusing his wife in 1997. The declaration was in court records from Jace's 2005 custody case concerning his son with Jennifer Bitterman. Jace "choked and hit" his wife and "slammed her against the wall while (their infant son) screamed in his crib next to her," Maria De Le Vegas said in the sworn declaration obtained by CNN. Jace "was raging and out of control, and seeing the extent of his anger was one of the most terrifying things I have ever seen," she said. Jace appeared to be suffering severe financial strain in recent years, according to court documents obtained by CNN. The actor filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy in March 2011, citing $500,000 in debts and an annual income of around $80,000 from residuals from his TV and film work, the documents said. Jace had defaulted on the $411,000 mortgage on the south Los Angeles home where his wife died, according to the documents. He married April Jace in June 2003, a year after divorcing his first wife, with whom he shared a son who is now a teen. The FX police drama "The Shield" was the biggest and longest-running role in Jace's 22-year acting career. He appeared in 89 episodes as Julien Lowe, who started as a rookie officer in an inner-city Los Angeles police precinct in 2002 and rose through the ranks to become a detective before the series ended in 2008, according to the Internet Movie Database. He acted on several episodes of "Southland," another TV drama about Los Angeles police, between 2009 and 2012. Jace often played a law enforcement or military officer on television shows. He is credited with roles in "CSI: Crime Scene Investigation," "Private Practice," "The Mentalist," "Burn Notice" and "NYPD Blue." He had the title role of Michael Jordan in the 1999 TV movie about the NBA star, "Michael Jordan: An American Hero." Jace played Officer Brown in Russell Crowe's 2009 film "State of Play," and he portrayed a Black Panther member in the 1994 blockbuster movie "Forrest Gump." April Jace had worked for the past year as a financial aid counselor at Biola University, a private school in La Mirada, California, according to the school. "We are obviously shocked and saddened by this terrible news, to lose a wonderful colleague, mother and friend," Biola President Barry Corey said in a written statement. "April's radiant personality brought great energy to the financial aid office," financial aid director Geoff Marsh said. "Her love for helping students and families and her great work ethic earned the respect and love of her coworkers. Her smiling face and helpful spirit will be missed by all." Photos: Shocking Hollywood crimes CNN's Dottie Selin Darkalstanian contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/pat-sajak-global-warming-tweet/index.html	entertainment	Pat Sajak catches heat for global warming tweet - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 10:52:28 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It was just a joke, said Pat Sajak -- but a lot of Twitter followers weren't laughing. On Monday night, the "Wheel of Fortune" host -- a conservative who's occasionally used his Twitter account to tweak liberals -- tweeted, "I now believe global warming alarmists are unpatriotic racists knowingly misleading for their own ends. Good night." The reaction from the Twitterverse was swift and blunt. Some tried reason. Michael E. Mann, a climate scientist at Penn State, tweeted that climate change could have huge repercussions. "Hey @PatSajak, this aint the Wheel of Fortune. If we lose this game, it isn't just one person's misfortune. All humanity pays the price," he posted. Hey @PatSajak, this aint the Wheel of Fortune. If we lose this game, it isn't just one person's misfortune. All humanity pays the price Others fought back with ridicule. "On one hand 97% of scientists on the other hand a guy that got his job because chuck woolery came across as too intellectual," posted mrjolly, referencing Sajak's "Wheel" predecessor. On one hand 97% of scientists on the other hand a guy that got his job because chuck woolery came across as too intellectual "Say what you will about Pat Sajak but that guy works 35 days a year," tweeted Pat Thornton. Say what you will about Pat Sajak but that guy works 35 days a year Sajak continued poking. "Taking next few weeks off. Computer models have already determined winners," Sajak posted Tuesday morning. He soon acknowledged he was just trying to get a rise out of people. "Sometimes it's fun to poke a stick in a hornets' nest just to hear the buzzing," he tweeted Tuesday afternoon. In a statement, Sajak said he was just being snarky. "Of course I was joking. Just mocking the name-calling that is directed at global warming skeptics within and without the scientific community," he said in a statement from his representative. As Vice magazine noted, Sajak has a habit of mocking climate change. He's tweeted about Al Gore, fund-raising and his nephew being a "Tooth Fairy denier." On Wednesday, Sajak puckishly observed that he'd hit a hot button. "Later today I'll be tweeting my views on the subjects of nuclear proliferation and free-range chicken," he tweeted. Pat Sajak's hosted 'Wheel of Fortune' drunk  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/showbiz/tv/the-voice-who-won-the-voice/index.html	entertainment	'The Voice' winner sets a new trend - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 10:17:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- "The Voice's" new winner has put Usher on the scoreboard. On Tuesday night's "The Voice" finale, the R&B singer's mentee, Josh Kaufman, was crowned the winner of Season 6. Kaufman's victory came in spite of a technical glitch that made it difficult for fans to show their support of him on iTunes, where his performance from Monday night's show was available for download. "The Voice" lets its viewers vote for their favorite singer through phone, e-mail, text and by downloading songs from the show on iTunes. However, as Kaufman warned his fans on Twitter, his cover of Adele's "Set Fire to the Rain" from Monday's show wasn't showing up where viewers expected. As a result, "The Voice" host Carson Daly said at the start of Tuesday's finale that all of the iTunes downloads from Monday night's show were being tossed out, but the glitch didn't impact the final results. Kaufman was up against Christina Grimmie, the Team Adam Levine singer who came in third, and Jake Worthington from Team Blake Shelton, who placed second. For the first time, neither Adam Levine nor Blake Shelton could boast coaching the season's winner, as Kaufman sealed the championship for Team Usher. (Although, to be fair, Kaufman was on Levine's team first.) Kaufman was at the top of his game during the finale, as he performed a duet with Robin Thicke. The pair of soulful crooners did a rendition of Thicke's new song, "Get Her Back." And with this being "The Voice," that was (obviously) far from the only performance. The two-hour season closer was packed with guest stars, and featured sets from Ed Sheeran, Coldplay, Tim McGraw, OneRepublic and Alabama. In the fall, "The Voice" will be joined by two new coaches, Pharrell Williams and Gwen Stefani, who will sit alongside mainstays Adam Levine and Blake Shelton.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/20/showbiz/tv/maya-rudolph-show-whats-the-verdict/index.html	entertainment	'The Maya Rudolph Show': What's the verdict? - CNN.com	2014/05/20	Tuesday May 20 03:46:53 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- There's no question that Maya Rudolph is supremely talented. The real question is whether the best home for those talents is on her own variety show. The "Saturday Night Live" alum tested that theory on Monday night with the hour-long NBC special "The Maya Rudolph Show." Critics weren't bowled over, but the ratings were nothing to sneeze at with 7.2 million tuning in. (It probably didn't hurt that "The Maya ... Show" premiered after "The Voice," which had 11.5 million watching the first part of its season finale.) The concept for "The Maya Rudolph Show" is a callback to the variety specials of yore, with '70s programs like "The Carol Burnett Show" and "Donny & Marie" serving as inspiration. Monday's hour included song, dance, sketches and plenty of "SNL" cameos, but unlike Rudolph's former gig, the variety show wasn't live, late night TV. "I always really responded to the familial aspect of it and how much fun they were having, which is what I miss more than anything about 'SNL' -- my friends and laughing," Rudolph previously told Entertainment Weekly. According to critics, Rudolph's special wasn't too short on laughs -- but it did lack cohesiveness and timeliness. "To be honest, it was a bit of a mess -- albeit a wildly entertaining one," said The Daily Beast's Kevin Fallon. "It was a sometimes too-corny, sometimes too-raunchy, scattershot hour that was as gut-bustingly hilarious as it was completely baffling." So while "it's certainly admirable that NBC is attempting to bring the variety show back -- and they've made a genius decision in entrusting Rudolph to lead the way -- the question is whether anyone will follow, or even if they'd want to." With audiences accustomed to watching entire networks devoted to precisely what they're in the mood for -- music, comedy or otherwise -- the variety show necessitates the sort of patience the average TV viewer may not have, argues NPR's David Bianculli. And with critics divided on whether Rudolph was magnetic enough to hold viewers' attention for an hour, it's unclear if she can single-handedly revive the retro format. (Bianculli, for one, thinks Justin Timberlake or Neil Patrick Harris would be able to do it better.) Slate's TV critic Willa Paskin agreed that "The Maya Rudolph Show" was "pleasant without being particularly funny or memorable, odd without being urgent or edgy, scattershot without taking any big swings." "On the strength of last night's pleasant, listless example, maybe (the variety show) needs reviving even less than pop-up video." New York magazine's Margaret Lyons, too, wasn't quite sold that "variety is a format that makes sense on American TV in 2014," but she did think the first airing of "The Maya Rudolph Show" had its strengths. "I hope this isn't the series' only outing because I have almost infinite positive regard for Rudolph, and I'd rather see a show like this find itself than watch another second of some hate-soaked but competent sitcom," Lyons reviewed. "But I kept wondering what the mission of 'TMRS' is, what tone it aspires to, how it sees itself, how it's supposed to feel. ... Mostly, though, the show just needs to be more."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/showbiz/tv/amc-drama-tumblr-ew/index.html	entertainment	AMC drama to become first show to ever premiere on Tumblr - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 07:09:16 EDT 2014	(EW.com ) -- Tumblr just became a lot more than the place to find the best GIFs. In anticipation of its newest 10-episode series, "Halt and Catch Fire," AMC is launching a two-week, full-episode sneak preview on Tumblr and AMC.com, making it the first-ever television show to premiere on Tumblr. "Halt and Catch Fire," created by Christopher Cantwell and Christopher C. Rogers, follows the rise of the PC in the early 1980s, roughly one year after IBM. "Halt and Catch Fire is a fun ride through the early days of the PC era, a time when no one could imagine a portable computer weighing less than 15 pounds, let alone one that was a few ounces and doubled as a phone," AMC President Charlie Collier said in a statement. "It's a perfect show for summer and -- given the subject matter -- a good fit for Tumblr's first TV series premiere and AMC's first social media screening." In addition to the launch of the new series, AMC also plans to launch a branded network Tumblr page to be integrated into AMC.com. "Tumblr is the biggest platform for social TV and destination for many of AMC's most passionate fans," Global Head of Brand Partnerships at Tumblr Lee Brown said. "We're excited to welcome Halt and Catch Fire and the rest of AMC's lineup to the home of fandoms through Tumblr integration on AMC.com and to offer this first look at Halt and Catch Fire to our community." Starting on Monday, May 19 and running through Saturday, May 31, viewers will be able to preview the new series on Tumblr and AMC.com before it premieres on AMC on Sunday, June 1 at 10 p.m. See the original story at EW.com.   CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/showbiz/movies/adam-sandler-blended-movie-review/index.html	entertainment	'Blended' is Adam Sandler's 'Anything Else' - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 12:03:09 EDT 2014	(EW) -- If "The Wedding Singer" is the "Annie Hall" of Adam Sandler movies, then "Blended" is his "Anything Else." Sandler and Drew Barrymore unite for a third time, after "50 First Dates," but like an unhappy old married couple staring at the clock, they ran out of fresh and meaningful things to say years ago. Sandler plays a Dick's Sporting Goods employee named Jim who lost his wife to cancer and hasn't a clue how to raise his three daughters. The eldest, for example, is named Hilary (Bella Thorne) but Jim calls her Larry  presumably because she's good at basketball and has Larry Bird's 1979 hairstyle. 'The Giver' character posters: The eyes have it Barrymore plays Lauren, a working single mom with two holy terror sons, one of whom is pulsating with puberty and a pornography obsession. Jim and Lauren get set up on a disastrous blind date, and both part ways hoping to never see the other again. But before you can say, "Hey guys, it's Adam. I convinced a studio to finance our group vacation to South Africa as long as we make a movie with oodles of product placement," both families are thrust together at a luxurious resort that specializes in blended and nontraditional-family vacations. How and why? Does it really matter? Once in South Africa, mutual loathing turns to mutual respect, with Lauren giving Hilary a makeover and Jim helping Lauren's boys with sports. When Lauren discovers Jim's sensitive soul, and Jim sees Lauren in a sexy black dress ... well, I don't want to ruin the ending for you! 'Godzilla': The secrets behind the roar "Blended" is dotted with familiar faces from previous Sandler comedies and a few hammy celebrity cameos, but only Kevin Nealon -- who plays a middle-aged dad enamored with his buxom new bimbo -- delivers any solid laughs. (Poor Joel McHale didn't even get to visit Africa for the lackluster assignment of playing Lauren's douche-y ex, whose one-line character description must've been, "Craig Kilborn in 'Old School.'") Though he's starring in promising upcoming films from directors Tom McCarthy and Jason Reitman, Sandler still seems shackled with the golden handcuffs of making easy, lucrative comedies, from "Click" to "Bedtime Stories" to "Grown Ups." In "Blended," his comic flab has never felt as thick, and this hackneyed "family-friendly" entertainment feels less like a movie than a bad sitcom re-run. Grade: D+ See the original story at EW.com.  CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/showbiz/cannes-2014-storify/index.html	entertainment	Missed Cannes this year? Social media is here to help - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 09:53:13 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The Cannes Film Festival wrapped up for another year this weekend, following the success of Turkish flick "Winter Sleep," which took home the top prize. As most of the stars -- and the yachts -- now nursing their hangovers in Monaco, we take a look back at the weeks' highlights - the boos! The cheers! What we loved, what we hated...bought to you by host Myleene Klass and intrepid CNN producers Neil Curry and Francesca Church. All, of course, in glorious Instavision! .  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/showbiz/movies/batman-superman-dawn-of-justice/index.html	entertainment	'Batman v Superman's' official title: Who likes it? - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 06:26:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The only thing that dawned when the official "Batman vs. Superman" title was announced on Wednesday was how much the Internet hated it. For months, fans have referred to the upcoming "Man of Steel" sequel as just "Batman vs. Superman," a placeholder that also recognizes the fact that both superheroes are appearing on the big screen together for the first time. But on Wednesday, the actual title was unveiled to be "Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice," along with the announcement that production on the project is now underway in metro Detroit. Immediately, the Twitterati fired back. "BATMAN v SUPERMAN: DAWN OF JUSTICE. Coming in September, to Lifetime Networks," chided Patton Oswalt. "OK, I just clicked on 'Dawn of Justice' in a panic, thinking it was yet another Far Right Group," said @Scriblit. "Dawn Of Justice sounds like Steven Seagal's comeback movie," quipped @DoctorFluxx. "Dawn of Justice? So THAT'S why Batman looks so sad," said @ElliottcMorgan, referencing the recently released first look at Ben Affleck's Batman. (Who, yes, does look pretty down.) Another user thought "it makes it sound like a direct-to-DVD movie you'd find in a bargain bin," as The Hollywood Reporter's Borys Kit tried to remind the displeased masses, "it's always darkest before dawn (of justice)." "Does anyone out there like the title?" Kit asked. "Anyone?" Well at least one person does -- if he could only figure out why the studio insisted on taking the "s" out of "vs." "The 'Dawn of Justice' thing is cool but having it be Batman 'V' Superman is annoying my OCD," tweeted Chris Stuckmann. "When I see the new title, I read it as 'Batman 5 Superman'. Help me!" Others are more concerned that the movie's going to have some sort of secret, litigious spin. "Oh my god. What if 'Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice' is A LAW MOVIE? And 'Batman v. Superman' is the lawsuit?" asked @Hello_Tailor. If it is, the Warner Bros. press release Wednesday didn't give any indication of that. Along with the new title and new logo, the statement confirmed that Chris Terrio ("Argo") is writing the script, which we already knew would be directed by "Man of Steel" helmer Zack Snyder. In addition to Affleck, Henry Cavill returns as Superman, and Gal Gadot is going to play Wonder Woman. Laurence Fishburne, Amy Adams and Diane Lane are all reprising their "Man of Steel" roles, and they'll be joined by Jesse Eisenberg as Lex Luthor, Jeremy Irons as Alfred and Holly Hunter in an unspecified, newly created role. Once "Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice" finishes filming -- production will also take place in Illinois, Africa and the South Pacific -- the movie will arrive in theaters on May 6, 2016.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/showbiz/cannes-2014-how-to-sell-a-film/index.html	entertainment	No budget? No stars? No problem! How to REALLY sell a film at Cannes - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 09:40:18 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Click here if viewing on mobile  (CNN) -- Away from the manicured glamor of the Croisette, there's another Cannes -- a Cannes that lies beneath. Beneath the red carpet of the Palais du Festival in the basement, that is. It's a seething, throbbing film market alive with b-movies -- low-budget features with no big name actors attached -- often horrors, thrillers, erotic movies or "mockbusters" (more on those later). THIS IS THE CANNES YOU THINK YOU KNOW ... BUT THAT'S JUST CANNES FOR THE A-LISTERS -- THIS IS WHAT IT'S LIKE FOR EVERYONE ELSE ... It's a galaxy away from the movie screenings of the Official Selection -- the elite group of films chosen by the festival's selection committee from the thousands submitted each year -- of which just 18 go into competition for the feted top prize, the Palme D'Or. THEY MOSTLY LOOK LIKE THIS ... OR LIKE THIS ...  So if you find yourself not among those with Nicole Kidman on speed dial and if your budget is a few zeros short of a few million, then head to the Marche du Film you must, to make or break your fortune. Although it's in fact one of the biggest film markets in the world, in reality it's just a sprawling global bazaar, where filmmakers and distributors come and set up stalls and negotiate. But instead of selling electronics or questionably-sourced handbags, they sell movies. Lots and lots of movies. FILMS LIKE THIS ... AND THIS ... In 2013 alone, producers, distributors, financiers, video-on-demand providers and other representatives from more than 1000 companies in 108 countries (including places as far-flung as Albania and French Guiana) came together to haggle over 5,364 films, according to official figures. So, how does an ambitious filmmaker get noticed in this mass of movies? We asked a couple of Cannes veterans and a young Welsh man who made a splash at Cannes a couple of years ago with a Zombie movie called "Colin" that he made for $70. STIR UP SOME CONTROVERSY ... Rupesh Paul Productions have announced that they are making a thriller based on the disappearance of Malaysian flight MH370. The film's promotional pamphlet says that it "tells the story of five people who seek revenge for the death of their loved ones. They hijack a plane... " Paul denies that the timing of the movie could be considered offensive of the families of the 239 men, women and children aboard the airliner that disappeared on March 8. IF YOU CAN'T MAKE A BLOCKBUSTER, MAKE A MOCKBUSTER ... Paul Bales is a partner at The Asylum, a movie production and distribution company based in Burbank, California. The Asylum is known for producing low-budget movies (around $500,000) that riff off big-budget blockbusters and are often released around the same time. On the books this year are "Sleeping Beauty," a twist on Angelina Jolie movie "Maleficent," and "Apocalypse Pompeii," another take on Paul W.S. Anderson's disaster epic "Pompeii," which cost between $80 to $100 million to make, according to Forbes. "We would love to be able to take credit for the mockbuster. The practice is called drafting ... it's been done almost since the industry started. Just like in bike racing, one racer will ride behind a faster racer and they benefit because there is less wind. "We've Just been a little more outrageous. Our (movie) titles try to get as close as possible." AND MAKE SURE YOU HAVE AN AWESOME POSTER ... Make them as outlandish as possible, adds Bales. At Cannes, the trade press pick them up and it's a great way of getting your name out there if you don' have a big budget or a high profile cast. GET A LITTLE HELP FROM YOUR FANS ... U.S. indie label Troma are famous for making low-budget satires with a '50s flavor with titles like "The Toxic Avenger," "The Class of Nuke 'Em High." The movie studio has been running for 40 years and, according to co-founder, Lloyd Kaufman, Troma's secret weapon is their fans. At Cannes, Troma fans help the company put on the Troma Parade and street theater they've become famous for, where characters like The Toxic Avenger act out scenes from movies. "This year, the Toxic Avenger and I have been asked to lead the zombie walk -- there's a zombie walk (at Cannes) that's been going on for about 10 years -- we've been asked to be parade masters. "That's how we get attention because we cannot afford to take the big billboards." NOTHING BEATS PERFECT TIMING ... Marc Price didn't expect much when he took "Colin," a zombie movie he made with a $70 budget, to Cannes in 2008. It was a movie he was proud of, but he also realized the timing of his no-budget horror happened to catch the zeitgeist at Cannes that year. "The global economic crisis was at its pinnacle," said Price. "So, our story fit very snugly into a success out of that." The press picked it up and the rest was history: Price says the film picked up limited theatrical release in the UK, Japan, the U.S. and Australia. See more from the Marche du Film: .  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/showbiz/midnight-rider-lawsuit/index.html	entertainment	Sarah Jones' family files suit in her death filming 'Midnight Rider' - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 10:00:27 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The parents of Sarah Jones, a crew member killed while filming musician Gregg Allman's biopic "Midnight Rider," filed a wrongful death lawsuit Wednesday. Jones, a 27-year-old camera assistant, was killed by an oncoming train during production. Among the defendants are the production company, the company that operates the train tracks, and various individuals, including the film's director, executive producers, location manager and director of photography. The suit was filed in Chatham County, Georgia, which includes Savannah. "Each of the Midnight Riders Defendants had knowledge, actual or constructive, that the scene filmed on February 20 was to take place on active railroad tracks, without permission from CSX, and each Midnight Rider Defendant knew of the danger presented by filming under those circumstances," the complaint reads. "Despite this knowledge, and as set forth above, the Midnight Rider Defendants breached their duties to conduct the February 20 filming in a safe and legal manner, and each Midnight Rider Defendant is independently liable to Plaintiffs for Sarah's death and resulting damages." Jones' death rocked the film community. Crew members from various countries shared photo tributes, holding clapboards with messages of remembrance for Jones. Images were shared on a Facebook group Slates for Sarah. Jones' primary job on set was to operate the slate at the beginning of each take. Jones, an Atlanta resident and member of the International Cinematographers Guild, used her "spunk and determination" to climb up in the industry, according to an obituary. Her family is seeking an "amount to be determined by the enlightened conscience of the jury." One of the defendants, Open Road Films -- a company the complaint alleges was to serve as distributor for "Midnight Rider" -- said it was not involved in the production "in any way at any time, and we have been named in this suit without justification." "This event was a horrible tragedy, and our deepest condolences go out to the Jones family, the crew members and others who have suffered," it said. Attempts to contact other defendants' attorneys were unsuccessful Wednesday. CNN's Jane Caffrey and Ray Sanchez contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/20/showbiz/movies/channing-tatum-magic-mike-ew/index.html	entertainment	Channing Tatum reveals the 'Magic Mike XXL' plot - CNN.com	2014/05/20	Tuesday May 20 04:22:26 EDT 2014	(EW.com) -- Our wait for details on the Magic Mike sequel set to hit theaters in July 2015 is over, ladies and (gay) gentlemen. Thanks to GQ's July 2014 cover story on Channing Tatum (read it here in its entirety) we now know the plot will revolve around our favorite male exotic dancers going to a strippers' convention. According to GQ, that's the first memory of his stripper days Tatum shared with his producing partner Reid Carolin when pitching the first film: "I want to do the story of when I'm in a dark U-Haul with a bunch of these guys and we're doing drugs driving up to the stripper convention." Magic Mike director Steven Soderbergh told them the idea wasn't a scene in the movie -- it was a movie in itself. So the sequel will now be inspired by two conventions Tatum attended when he was 19. "The women would come from miles and miles around," Tatum says, recalling one audience numbering 3,000. "Then you lock the doors and you say all bets are off. It gets zany and crazy, and it's a wild ride. It's an incubator for insanity. It doesn't matter almost what you do onstage. I don't want to put anything in black and white on a page, but if you've been to one, you know how crazy it gets, and now pour kerosene on that. You've seen 'Magic Mike' -- now multiply that. Mob mentality. It's just exponentially crazier. I thought it was absolutely insane." The article also reveals that while Soderbergh's producing partner Greg Jacobs will direct the "on-the-road adventure," the retired director will still be the director of photography and camera operator, as well as the film editor. "I want to be a part of it. I want to be in the band, but I just don't want to be the frontman this time," Soderbergh says. EW: 'Magic Mike XXL' set to take it off in theaters July 2015 First thought: Imagine 3,000 extras. They should encourage women to bring their own singles and whatever money the cast earns goes to a charity of Tatum's choice. Second thought: This plot seems to remedy the three tiny complaints about the first film  that we didn't get to know the other strippers well (looking at you, Big D**k Richie and whatever Matt Bomer's character was named), that there wasn't enough dancing, and that Tatum's love interest was wooden (presumably all significant others stay at home). Below are other fun tidbits from the GQ cover story, which again, is worth reading in its entirety:  There's a reason Chan (or Chanimal, to his mother) was believable in "She's the Man:" "Soccer was the first sport that my parents put me in, and ultimately all the parents kind of came over to my mom and were, 'We think Channing would be better at football.... We love him, he's really great, but he's kind of hurting our children.' I was just a little wild."  You've seen him reenact the "Dirty Dancing" lift with his dog. Well, he can probably do the pottery wheel scene, too: In what is my favorite GQ cover story interview location since Taylor Lautner took a writer to an Olive Garden, Tatum suggested that he and his crutches-bound profiler go to the paint-your-own-pottery store Color Me Mine because he got into sculpting when he was filming "Haywire" in Santa Fe and has "always wanted to paint my own bowls and dishes and s--t." (If you're dying to know what Tatum painted, jump to the final page of the piece.)  You're going to hear a lot about his claim that he's a "high-functioning alcoholic": I've already received an email from one addiction specialist who is "available for comment." Perhaps it's a "cry for help," as that person suggests, but if you read the quote in context, you could argue it's hyperbolic. EW: Matthew McConaughey HAS to return for 'Magic Mike' sequel He likes to sculpt at night, with a bottle of wine or a glass of bourbon. "I probably drink too much, you know," he says. "My wife, that's what she bought into.... I'm probably a pretty high-functioning, I guess, you know, I would say, alcoholic, I guess." He likes how it slows down his mind. "There's probably a tendency to escape. I equate it to creativity, and I definitely equate it to having a good time." Still, he says, nothing makes you cut back like having a baby, and he'll not drink for four months when they make the Magic Mike sequel. "Then, at the end of that movie," he says, "it's go time."  On a lighter note, he and your 5-year-old niece have something in common: "I just love cake," he explains. "Confetti cake, to be specific. It has little colored candies inside the cake, and then you get the confetti icing, which is really hard to find sometimes.... It's really hard to explain to people, because it's not icing with sprinkles on top. It's icing that actually has candies inside of it. It's Funfetti icing.... The icing, coupled with the actual confetti cake. It's a beautiful mix. It is an angel sent from heaven."  You'll be left wondering what bet Tatum and Jonah Hill have made about how much "22 Jump Street" will earn its opening weekend: Hill has yet to pay up on their bet for the first film's: "I will kiss your tip! I will kiss the tip of your d through your underwear if we make $35 million." See the original story at EW.com.   CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/charlie-sheen-rihanna-celeb-feud-gallery/index.html	entertainment	Charlie Sheen and Rihanna have beef - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 05:27:36 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/zooey-deschanel-celebs-no-makeup/index.html	entertainment	Zooey Deschanel: No makeup, and no filter - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 11:26:09 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/30/showbiz/dolce-gabbana-appeal/index.html	entertainment	Is orange the new black for D&G? Designers lose prison term appeal - CNN.com	2014/04/30	Wednesday Apr 30 02:04:15 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Italian fashion designers Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana lost the appeal of their jail sentence for tax convictions in Italy, their lawyer said Wednesday. The men were sentenced to 18 months in prison by a lower court after being found guilty of failing to pay 40 million euros in taxes owed to the Italian government last year. They must also pay a 500,000 euro fine. The case will now be appealed to Italy's Supreme Court of Cassation, attorney Armando Simbari told CNN. The Dolce & Gabbana label is a popular brand on luxury clothing and accessories. CNN's Livia Borghese in Rome contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/30/showbiz/lil-za-plea/index.html	entertainment	Bieber buddy Lil Za gets probation for drug, vandalism charges - CNN.com	2014/04/30	Wednesday Apr 30 03:45:25 EDT 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- Lil Za, former house guest of Justin Bieber, accepted a plea deal for probation Wednesday to settle drug and vandalism charges stemming from the January search of Bieber's mansion. The rapper -- whose real name is Xavier Smith -- pleaded "no contest" to a felony drug possession charge and a misdemeanor vandalism count during a hearing in Los Angeles on Wednesday. Los Angeles County Sheriff's investigators were looking for evidence that Bieber, 20, attacked a neighbor's home with eggs in January, when they arrested Lil Za for possession of suspected illegal drugs. Lab tests confirmed one of the drugs in the 20-year-old rapper's possession was MDMA, also known as Molly or Ecstasy, a sheriff's detective said. The vandalism charge was filed after Lil Za ripped a jail phone off the wall of a holding cell while waiting to be released. Lil Za must pay the sheriff $600 for the phone damage, along with $1,000 fine on the vandalism charge. He was sentenced to three years probation on the drug charge. He must also attend an outpatient drug treatment program and work 20 days on a highway cleanup crew. Judge Mitchell Block said as he sentenced Lil Za that he had noticed his good behavior during his several previous court appearances in the case. "That impresses me as someone who will take his probation seriously, get the job done that needs to be done," Block said. Smith was represented in court by lawyer Shawn Holley, who is also Bieber's attorney. The Los Angeles County district attorney has yet to decide if Bieber will be charged with vandalism for the egg attack. The prosecutor could decide to make it a felony case, since investigators said it caused an estimated $20,000 in damage to a Calabasas, California, mansion. It could also be prosecuted as just a misdemeanor because of the nature of the incident. Sheriff's detectives asked for a felony charge against Bieber, but his lawyers argue that the egging was a childish prank. Bieber egging 'a silly prank,' not a felony, lawyers argue  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/12/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/justin-bieber-talk-back-gallery/index.html	entertainment	Justin Bieber and others who talked back - CNN.com	2014/03/12	Wednesday Mar 12 04:37:59 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/10/showbiz/justin-bieber-deposition-video/index.html	entertainment	Justin Bieber battles lawyer in deposition video - CNN.com	2014/03/10	Monday Mar 10 02:43:15 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Don't ask Justin Bieber about Selena Gomez. It's a touchy subject. In fact, Bieber appeared reluctant to answer any questions from an attorney for a photographer who accuses Bieber of ordering a bodyguard to attack him last summer. Several video clips of the deposition, which a Miami judge ordered in the photographer's lawsuit against Bieber, were posted Monday on the celebrity news website TMZ. The release comes just days after another Miami judge released video of Bieber giving a urine sample in jail after an arrest on a driving under the influence charge in January. In video from the deposition, Bieber primped and winked to the camera at times, but he was a hostile witness for most of the four hours of questioning by Miami lawyer Mark DiCowden, who represents photographer Jeffrey Binion. Bieber's attorney objected when DiCowden asked if he ever dated Gomez. Bieber had a long-term relationship with Gomez, which included many encounters with the paparazzi. "Sounds like you're trying to harass him," his lawyer said. DiCowden followed up by asking Bieber, 20, if he had "ever discussed his feelings about paparazzi with Gomez?" "Don't ask me about her again," Bieber answered. He wagged a finger at the lawyer, repeating at least six times, "Don't ask me about her again." At times Bieber closed his eyes, appearing to tune out the lawyer. "I don't have to listen to anything you have to say," Bieber told DiCowden. He compared the lawyer to journalist Katie Couric. "It seems like a '60 Minutes' interview," Bieber said. Evidence of Bieber's reluctance also came when he was asked if he knew "an entertainer by the name of Usher." "Yeah, Usher, that sounds familiar," Bieber answered. He later acknowledged Usher was a close friend, but he downplayed the singer's role in his career. "Isn't it true that Usher was instrumental in starting your career?" DiCowden asked. "I was found on YouTube," Bieber replied. "I think that I was detrimental to my own career." After prompting from his attorney, Bieber revised his answer to say "instrumental" -- not "detrimental." Bieber may have been too quick to respond when DiCowden asked him if he had a perscription for the sedative Xanax. "No, sir," Bieber replied. "Give me a chance to object, ok," his lawyer then whispered to Bieber. A toxicology report released by Miami Beach police said Xanax was present in Bieber's system when he was arrested on a DUI charge in January. Bieber's combativeness extended toward the court reporter who was transcribing his answers. When she remarked she could not hear Bieber's whispered answer to a question, he replied, " 'Yes' and 'no' are f--king pretty different." Lawyers for each side did not immediately respond to CNN request for comment. Bieber is likely to get more experience dealing with lawyers' questions in the coming months. He faces the DUI charge that could go to a trial in Miami as well as an assault charge in Toronto. A Los Angeles prosecutor also is close to a decision in a possible vandalism case over an alleged egg attack on the mansion of a Bieber neighbor in Calabasas, California. Woman arrested in Georgia home rented by Bieber  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/04/showbiz/justin-bieber-jail-video/index.html	entertainment	Justin Bieber jail video to be released with his genitals blurred - CNN.com	2014/03/04	Tuesday Mar 4 05:51:33 EST 2014	(CNN) -- A Florida court technician has the job of blurring Justin Bieber's private parts on jail video before you can see it. The video will then be handed over to news organizations this week under Florida's open records law, a Miami judge ordered Tuesday. It's part of several hours of video captured by surveillance cameras inside the Miami Beach Police Department's jail, where Bieber was held after his arrest on DUI charges on January 23. Miami-Dade County Judge William Altfield rejected arguments from Bieber's lawyer that the video should be kept private. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/25/showbiz/justin-bieber-legal-troubles/index.html	entertainment	The People v. Justin Bieber: The singer's court cases - CNN.com	2014/02/25	Tuesday Feb 25 04:57:50 EST 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- Justin Bieber's focusing on making new music in the hip-hop capital of Atlanta, while lawyers in three other cities prepare to defend him in court. Bieber, who graduates from being a teen pop star when he celebrates his 20th birthday Saturday, has several court dates on his calendar next month. Miami DUI case There are good reasons that Bieber's lawyers could reject a plea deal and demand a jury trial for the drunken driving charge in Miami, according to a Florida lawyer familiar with the case. Lawyers sometimes beat the charge in court. A lawyer can defend a DUI charge by focusing on the technical aspects of the arrest and testing, questioning whether police did everything right, attorney Michael Salnick told CNN. If problems or deficiencies are found in what law enforcement did, those issues could be challenged. Was there probable cause for police to stop the singer's Lamborghini? GPS tracking data suggests the sports car was not speeding in the minutes before the arrest. If the judge lets a jury hear that, it might create reasonable doubt about the police officer's claim he stopped Bieber and friend Khalil Sharieff after seeing them drag racing on a residential street. Was there probable cause for the officer to test Bieber's sobriety? The arresting officer said he became suspicious because he smelled alcohol on the singer's breath, but lab tests later showed the alcohol level in his system was well below Florida's legal limit for drivers under the drinking age of 21. Bieber's lawyer could argue that the officer made it up to justify the arrest. His defense might be bolstered if the judge allows the officer's disciplinary record to be used to challenge his credibility. While the alcohol level was below the legal limit, a preliminary toxicology report on Bieber's urine sample said he tested positive for "metabolite of THC," which indicates marijuana use, and alprazolam, the generic name for the prescription sedative Xanax. "Yeah, we were smoking all night at the studio," the singer told a police officer who told him he "reeked of marijuana," according to police documents. No-risk trial in Florida Defendants sometimes accept plea deals because they fear a judge would impose a tougher sentence if they were convicted in a trial. That's not a risk with Florida's DUI law, Salnick said. A judge would not give a sentence any different than what a prosecutor might offer in a plea deal, but a plea deal might allow the DUI charge to be kept off the defendant's criminal record, replaced by reckless driving, he said. Probation rules -- including a drug-testing requirement -- would be the same. So, why go to trial? An acquittal would be Bieber's only way to avoid probation and drug testing, short of persuading the Miami prosecutor to drop the case, Salnick said. The prosecutor in Miami has not discussed a plea agreement with Bieber's lawyer, Ed Griffith, a spokesman for the Miami-Dade state attorney's office told CNN Tuesday. "It's way too early to offer a plea deal, if one was to be offered." Bieber could choose the DUI diversion program that is available to all first-time offenders, Griffith said. It would last between six and nine months with random drug testing, about $1,000 in fines and fees, 40 hours of community service, an alcohol education class. In addition, Bieber would have to attend a session in which victims of DUI wrecks tell their stories. "There are 11 stories presented by real victims and sometimes defendants who relay their experiences," a description of the three-hour session said. "There is a quiz at the end, and the defendant has to score 100 percent prior to completion." Deal or no deal, first-time offenders rarely go to jail if convicted of drunken driving in Florida, Salnick said. Bieber is likely not facing jail, unless he violates probation -- such as by failing a drug test. A trial had been scheduled to start next Tuesday, but instead a "sounding" hearing will be held with lawyers talking to the judge about preparations for a trial. Toronto assault charge Bieber's best resolution of an assault charge in Toronto may be a plea deal that includes a "diversion" plan, according to a Canadian lawyer interviewed by CNN. "If he goes to trial, he probably would be convicted," said attorney James Morton, a past president of the Ontario Bar Association. "The Canadian system's conviction rate is extraordinarily high." Just 3.5% of all defendants who plead not guilty and go to trial are acquitted, he said. Bieber allegedly struck his limousine driver on the back of his head several times while driving to a Toronto nightclub in December. Toronto prosecutors are likely already talking to Bieber's lawyer about a plea deal with a "conditional discharge," in which the case would not be prosecuted if he takes part in anger management and community service, Morton said. It's the likely result for a young person without a criminal record who is not a celebrity, he said. Prosecutors will be under "intense scrutiny" and will want to avoid a deal that "looks like they're favoring a famous Canadian star," he said. The first court hearing is set for March 10, but Bieber does not have to be there. A magistrate will hold several hearings over the next few months to make sure the prosecution has handed over all of its evidence, including statements and any video, to the defense before the case is assigned to a judge for trial, Morton said. California egg probe Bieber faces a possible vandalism charge in connection with eggs tossed at his neighbor's home last month, which caused an estimated $20,000 damage to a Calabasas, California, mansion. The egging case is what lawyers call a "wobbler." The Los Angeles County district attorney's office could prosecute it as a misdemeanor or a felony under California law. It is up to the prosecutor to decide how serious the case is, based on a defendant's criminal history and other circumstances. A prosecutor has had the results of the sheriff's investigation for almost three weeks, and a decision could come soon. A felony vandalism conviction could bring up to three years in prison and a $50,000 fine. The maximum penalty for a misdemeanor conviction is a year in the county jail and a $50,000 fine. A felony conviction could also limit Bieber's ability to work in the United States, because he is a Canadian citizen with a work visa. Investigators searched his $6.5 million home last month, seizing the security video. Detectives gave the district attorney video clips identified from the night of the egg attack to use in the prosecution of Bieber. Another video recorded by the neighbor was also provided to investigators. Flying high? The Federal Aviation Administration is looking into allegations that Bieber and other passengers onboard a charter flight from Canada to New Jersey's Teterboro Airport on January 31 interfered with the flight crew, the agency said. Bieber and his father were "extremely abusive verbally" to the flight attendant on the Gulfstream IV aircraft as he traveled to attend the Super Bowl, according to a law enforcement sources. Both Biebers refused a pilot's repeated warnings to stop smoking pot on the flight, according to a report by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which was read to CNN. The FAA has not said when its investigation will conclude. CNN's John Couwels contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/09/showbiz/justin-bieber-hollywood-parenting/index.html	entertainment	Hollywood's toughest role: Parent of a young celebrity - CNN.com	2014/02/09	Sunday Feb 9 11:05:28 EST 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- Justin Bieber's recent arrests and alleged pot-smoking antics on an airplane raise the question: Who's in charge? Can parents stand a chance of keeping their kid in line if he's a highly paid teen celebrity? CNN interviewed two celebrity parents and two professionals who help young stars after they crash about why parenthood is perhaps the toughest role in Hollywood. They point to predators, parasites and parents who don't act like parents as culprits. Parents can't be pals Justin Bieber and his dad seem to be best buddies. They even have matching tattoos. Jeremy Bieber, 38, was with his son during several of the incidents that have brought him legal trouble in the past weeks. Father and son were partying together in Miami Beach, Florida, before the younger Bieber, 19, was arrested on a drunken driving charge. The elder Bieber was with his son the night he allegedly assaulted a Toronto limousine driver. A U.S. Customs report said Jeremy and Justin Bieber were both flying on a chartered jet when the pilots had to put on oxygen masks after marijuana smoke filled the cabin. "You have the parents acting as a child with them," said Dr. Damon Raskin, a former child actor who helps celebrities detox in rehab. "This enables their addictions and contributes to their spiral downward, as with Justin Bieber and Lindsay Lohan." Lindsay Lohan's father, who runs an addiction treatment facility in Florida, said he would never party with his daughter. Michael Lohan has been publicly critical of his ex-wife for doing that. "You can't socialize with your kids," Michael Lohan said. "You can't attend events and party with them." Lohan missed out on some of his daughter's childhood when he served prison time in connection with a Wall Street insider trading investigation. He also had his own substance abuse issues, which were addressed in rehab. The parent of another successful young actress -- who at age 20 has never been in trouble -- replied "Oh, hell no!" when asked if she would ever party with her daughter. "You can't party with your kid," she said. "You have to keep your position as a parent." She asked to remain anonymous so as not to embarrass her daughter. Richard Taite is the founder and CEO of Cliffside Malibu, the rehab facility where Lindsay Lohan was treated last year. He cites a "truism that never changes." "When parents raise their children with a healthy boundary and recognize that they are not to be this child's friend, but to be their parent, what happens is, these children grow up to be well-adjusted," Taite said. "We look at them as stars, but the reality is they are still children, and children crave boundaries. If you're going to be their friend primarily, and you just happen to be a parent, then don't be shocked when your children grow up with social adjustment issues." Unnatural role reversal Parents of a young star often leave their own jobs to travel with their children as they make movies or perform on concert tours. "The parent can no longer work because they run around with them, and sometimes the kids realize that and it's unnatural," the previously quoted mother said. "They let the kid turn wild because they feel guilty, because they are not working." A mother is needed to do things the manager or agent won't do, such as helping them study scripts and run lines with them between scenes, she said. "No agent does that." But even if parents keep their own careers, their child's income can far exceed their own. This role reversal can leave a parent powerless to enforce rules. "It's hard for the parent to have control when the kid knows they're making more money than them," she said. "If he wants to go to a party, he's going to use that." This mother shared the story of another parent who put her foot down when her 16-year-old actress daughter refused to clean up her bedroom. The teen suggested the maid could do it. The mom called the producer of her hit TV series and told him the actress would not be showing that day until she cleaned her room. The producer agreed to shoot around the young actress that day. The daughter cleaned the room after that, she said. It's a move many parents are afraid of making, out of fear it could cost their child work in the future. "Parents afraid to upset the system," the mother said. No one to say 'No' "These kids need structure," Raskin said. "They need boundaries. They need to be told 'no'. Sometimes the parents are missing, emotionally abandoning them, being too involved in their own lives. There is no one to say 'no' if your parent can't say 'no' to you." Justin Bieber needs "someone who is willing to piss him off," the actress's mother said. "A good parent has to do that." It's something she does regularly with her daughter, even though she's now legally an adult. "It's no secret -- we battle," she said. Michael Lohan said it is "important to steer them into the right direction" about who they should associate with, but it is "hard to control that." It's the "parasites that come around them" at night that cause problems, he said. Another problem is that the bodyguards -- who are suppose to protect them -- party with them and help to cover it up, Lohan said. Momagers and predators When a performer turns 18 in California, he or she is handed the checkbook to the trust fund where 15% of their earnings have been deposited under the state's "Coogan Act." The law was written to protect them from the fate of Jackie Coogan, who made a fortune as a child actor in silent films, but his parents spent the money before he became an adult. These 18-year-olds are also given the freedom make their own business decisions. It's almost a ritual for managers, agents, lawyers and publicists to approach them with the advice that they ditch their parents as advisers, the actress's mother said. "When they are almost 18, they have secret lunches and they tell your kids 'You need to leave your parents,'" she said. "The parents have no power then." Her own daughter only told her a year later that her manager "took her to lunch and said she needed to get away from mom," she said. "The agents turned because I was putting pressure on them, because they didn't have a plan for her at 17 and 18," the mother said. "When you make them do their job, then you become the enemy." Michael Lohan told a similar story about his daughter when she was almost 18 and making the movie "Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen." Justin's mom: 'He's just Justin to me' Justin Bieber's mother Pattie Mallette told CNN's Anderson Cooper in a 2012 interview that she "didn't want him even to know it was an option" to be in the entertainment industry. However, it was his mother who first put his videos on YouTube, which led to his discovery by manager Scooter Braun. She moved with him from Canada to Atlanta where Braun launched Bieber's remarkable career. "Parenting him is, I think, like anybody parenting a child," Mallette told HLN a year ago. "We just have a different set of circumstances. It doesn't affect me at all. His lifestyle has different circumstances that we have to work around, but he's just Justin to me." Mallette told USAToday that she's always been protective of her son. "You hear all the horror stories about kids and teenagers in this industry, and I didn't want to throw my son to the wolves. I've done my best to protect him and surround him with good people." Michelle Obama: 'I'd pull him close' First lady Michelle Obama, mother of two girls, was asked by Univision Radio host Enrique Santos on Friday what she would do if Justin Bieber was her son. "I'd pull him close," Obama said. "I don't know if it would be advice as much as action. I would be very present in his life right now and I would be probably with him a good chunk of the time, just there to talk, to figure out what's going on in his head, to figure out who's in his life and who's not." Her daughters "just want me near, they want that advice from a parent," she said. "They want to see you on a daily basis." Taite's suggestion for Justin Bieber does not involve his parents. He should have a talk with the Justin Bieber of 15 years from now. "What he has to do is have a moment of truth and sit down and recognize that his 35-year-old self would be bitch-slapping him right now," the rehab owner said. Bieber also should find "the best, top notch therapist he humanely, possibly can in the industry, who is desensitized to who he is," Taite said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/07/showbiz/bieber-flight/index.html	entertainment	FAA investigating Bieber's flight to New Jersey - CNN.com	2014/02/07	Friday Feb 7 05:28:09 EST 2014	Washington (CNN) -- The Federal Aviation Administration said Friday that it is looking into allegations that passengers onboard singer Justin Bieber's charter flight last week interfered with the flight crew. Under FAA regulations, "No person may assault, threaten, intimidate, or interfere with a crew member in the performance of the crew member's duties aboard an aircraft." According to a law enforcement sources, Bieber and his father were "extremely abusive verbally" to a flight attendant during a flight on the chartered Gulfstream IV aircraft from Ontario, Canada, to Teterboro Airport in New Jersey last Friday in advance of the Super Bowl. Justin Bieber and his father refused a pilot's repeated warnings to stop smoking pot on the flight, according to a report by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which was read to CNN. The pilots asked the flight attendant to remain in the cockpit to protect her from the alleged abusive behavior, the report says. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/15/travel/mississippi-delta-10-things-bourdain/index.html	travel	10 things to know about the Mississippi Delta - CNN.com	2014/05/15	Thursday May 15 02:03:22 EDT 2014	Editor's note: World-renowned chef, best-selling author and Emmy-winning television personality Anthony Bourdain has returned for the third season of "Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown." The series, shot entirely on location, airs on CNN on Sundays at 9 p.m. ET/PT. Follow the show on Twitter and Facebook. (CNN) -- The Mississippi Delta is a storied region that sets the standard for all things Southern, good and bad. The hospitality can be effusive, almost overwhelming, and the food is delicious and more varied than the usual deep-fried clichs. King Cotton sprouted from the fertile farmland that still dominates the region, as did the hard-luck chants of the field workers that evolved into America's original music form: the blues. But the Delta has another, less kindly reputation. The Civil War and the civil rights struggle left deep wounds and, even today, some of America's most brutal, entrenched poverty and racism thrives here. Agriculture jobs have been drying up since mechanization replaced human labor, and foreign competition continues to drive out other local industries. Since 1940, the Delta's population has shrunk by nearly half. Yet for all its woes, visitors flock here from all over the world to soak up the raw authenticity -- in rollicking juke joints, plate-lunch cafes and boarded-up towns with markers revealing the stories of blues legends, civil rights heroes and history-making moments that changed the nation. Living in the Delta is hard. Touring it is easy -- as long as you're not shy about asking the insiders you meet along the way for tips. They're always happy to share, and they will often bend your ear with colorful stories for as long as you've got the time to listen. Here are 10 things to know about the Delta: 1. Geography shapes the culture. This leaf-shaped section in the northwest quadrant of Mississippi is bordered by the Mississippi River to the west and the ridgeline of hills to the east, just beyond the Yazoo River. The delta is formed by the confluence of the two main rivers just below Vicksburg. The Delta essayist David Cohn summed up his native region more prosaically when he wrote that "the Mississippi Delta begins in the lobby of the Peabody Hotel in Memphis and ends on Catfish Row in Vicksburg." A 250-mile stretch of Highway 61 -- also known as the Blues Highway -- connects these two landmarks: one a legendary plush hotel, the other a riverbank once occupied by shacks that have since been replaced by a children's park. Those north and south endpoints also represent opposite ends of the social spectrum: the very wealthy white planters and the very poor black laborers. This economic gap has always been part of the region's identity. Rather than disguise it, Delta leaders have put that painful past out for the world to see. The gravesite of Fannie Lou Hamer, who fought for African-Americans' right to vote, has been turned into a historic site. The Emmett Till Memorial Commission of Tallahatchie County offers a driving tour of the events surrounding the 1955 racially-motivated murder of a 14-year-old African-American boy accused of whistling at a white woman. The courthouse in Sumner, where an all-white, all-male jury found two white men not guilty of the killing, will soon be opened as a museum in the victim's honor. 2. The Mississippi Delta's unofficial capital is in Tennessee.  Memphis, which stands on a bluff just across the Mississippi state line, was built on the cotton fortunes from the rich farmland to the south. It's the logical place to begin a Delta adventure. In its early days, Delta slaves, and later sharecroppers, grew and picked the cotton; Memphis businessmen marketed and sold it. Likewise, the blues songs that grew organically in Mississippi fields became sheet music, and later recordings, in Memphis, inspiring Elvis Presley and other rock 'n' roll pioneers. The connection between the city and its rural neighbors remains palpable -- in the music, the food and the hospitality. Stroll along Beale Street, the historic gathering place for early blues musicians that's now one of the state's biggest tourist attractions. Stax Museum, Sun Studio, the Memphis Rock 'n' Soul Museum, the Gibson Guitar Factory and Graceland further amplify the significance of the blues on American music. Check out the sobering exhibits at the National Civil Rights Museum at the Lorraine Motel where Martin Luther King Jr. was shot. 3. Once out of Memphis, the terrain turns startlingly flat.  That's because it is a floodplain. There are no superhighways; most of the thoroughfares are pencil-straight two-lane blacktops. Photo ops of old tumbledown shacks and other relics abound. Film crews love it, too. "The Help" was one of many movies filmed here, and the city of Greenwood still offers tours where the scenes were shot. With so little traffic, the temptation to step on the gas pedal is great. But don't do it. You never know when an errant deer might pop into your headlights. 4. Big Muddy is the Delta's lifeblood.  A grassy levee forms a wall concealing the Mississippi River from the main thoroughfares, so you might forget it's there. But its impact is evident everywhere you turn. It has delivered the region abundance and washed it away in cataclysmic floods. Steamboats brought ethnic influences from all over. Italian, Lebanese, Jewish and Chinese communities thrived. It also created a culture for gambling, which became legal in the early '90s and helped jump-start its economy. Neon-lit casinos transformed Tunica County, once so impoverished it was dubbed "America's Ethiopia," into "the Las Vegas of the South." There are other ways to experience river culture that don't involve slot machines. On the Sunflower River in downtown Clarksdale, John Ruskey of Quapaw Canoe Company leads river expeditions in hand-carved boats. 5. Antebellum mansions are rarities. Most of the stately plantation homes were destroyed by flood or fire and the ones that remain are largely abandoned. Tourists seeking the white-columned grandeur of the mint julep set must keep driving until they reach Vicksburg, home of the National Military Park and a dozen or so grand old residences standing regally atop steep hills, immaculately restored for touring. 6. The blues are alive and well. Much of the credit for the explosion in blues tourism goes to actor Morgan Freeman, a native son who still lives in the area and has sunk a portion of his fortune into local revitalization efforts. In 2000, he and business partner Bill Luckett (who's also mayor of Clarksdale) started a fine dining restaurant called Madidi and later Ground Zero Blues Club in Clarksdale, the town most famous for cultivating blues talent. It was at the crossroads of Highways 61 and 49 in the center of town where Robert Johnson supposedly sold his soul to the devil in exchange for musical genius. Roger Stolle, a longtime blues aficionado and music promoter from St. Louis, came here soon after Freeman's ventures gained national buzz. His Cat Head Delta Blues and Folk Art store has become a magnet for blues lovers the world over. Stolle is a tireless booster of all things Delta, responsible for starting the Juke Joint Festival and many other music events. On his website, www.cathead.biz, you'll find a detailed calendar of blues-related activities. Though Madidi closed in 2012, the graffiti-covered former cotton grading warehouse that is now Ground Zero is still hopping and new restaurants and businesses keep popping up. While Ground Zero appeals to the masses (and has some great Southern food, too), blues experts like Stolle can direct you to the few remaining authentic juke joints, such as Red's Lounge a few blocks away. Po' Monkey's, farmer Willie Seaberry's backwoods sharecropper shack closer to the Delta's center near Merigold, serves beer from a cooler and has a DJ that plays blues and old-school R&B. Plastered with posters and strung with Christmas lights, with a sea of stuffed monkeys hanging from the ceiling, it provides an ambience like no other. No blues tour is complete without a stop at the state-of-the-art B.B. King Museum and Interpretive Center in Indianola, opened in 2008 to honor the blues legend's life, and the history-making events in the community where he grew up. Club Ebony, right around the corner, is the blues club where King got his start. 7. Deltans have their own style of dining.  Besides fried chicken and sweet tea, the flavors borrow heavily from New Orleans and Italy, where many of its residents can trace their roots. But dining out in the Delta is just as much about the experience as the taste. Deltans love to surround themselves with hunt club taxidermy, vintage high school class portraits and old farm equipment painted and turned into art. A love of good home-cooked food inspired Greenwood entrepreneur Fred Carl Jr. to invent a restaurant-quality home range that would become the Viking Range Corporation, his hometown's biggest business success story since the fall of cotton. The Viking-owned Alluvian is a European-style boutique hotel anchored by a historic Italian restaurant, Giardina's, arguably the classiest restaurant in the Delta. Viking's flagship cooking school across the street sealed its reputation as a sophisticated foodie magnet. Carl has since sold Viking but remains invested in other local restaurant properties. But long before Viking came to Greenwood, there was Lusco's, a former grocery store that's been serving fat steaks and butter sauce-drenched pompano since Prohibition days. Back then, planters came through the back door to eat, gamble and drink Papa Lusco's special brew in curtained rooms. The illegal hooch is gone, but the private curtained rooms with buzzers on the wall for summoning the wait staff remain. Nearby, the Crystal Grill has been drawing old-timers and newcomers alike for just as long with their Old South entrees and mile-high meringue pies. Both Lusco's and the Crystal Grill rank near the top of most Southern food bucket list recommendations, as does Doe's Eat Place in Greenville, a legendary steakhouse in a proudly run-down old grocery store that's as famous for its tamales as its porterhouses. 8. The Delta has inspired writers and artists of all genres. The region figures in the works of William Faulkner, Eudora Welty and a host of other Mississippi-born writers. Greenville in particular prides itself on its homegrown literary talent: William Alexander Percy, his nephew Walker Percy, who lived with him as a youth after his parents died; Shelby Foote, Hodding Carter, David Cohn, Angela Jackson, Ellen Douglas and Julia Reed. Willie Morris was raised in Yazoo City and Tennessee Williams spent a chunk of his childhood in Clarksdale, where a Tennessee Williams Festival is held each year. Several obscure but rewarding museums pay tribute to other notable Delta artists. Mama's Dream World museum in Belzoni shows "picture memories" of rural Delta life hand-stitched by folk artist Ethel Wright Mohamed, whose work has been displayed at the Smithsonian Institution. The Jim Henson Museum in Leland honors the Muppets creator, whose Sesame Street characters are based on the creatures he discovered on the banks of Deer Creek where he once played. Merigold is home to the world-famous McCarty's Pottery started 60 years ago in an old mule barn. 9. Unique lodging enhances the Delta experience. A night or two at the plush Alluvian in Greenwood is a luxurious treat. Other towns, especially Clarksdale, offer funkier accommodations that make you feel like you're sleeping in a museum. The Riverside Hotel, set behind a broken Schlitz sign and a blues marker noting its history as the hospital where blues singer Bessie Smith died from injuries sustained in a car wreck, is homey, hospitable and filled with nostalgia. The Shack Up Inn on the Hopson Plantation began as a few refurbished sharecroppers' shacks, and it now offers lodging in renovated cotton gin bins. An old commissary on the premises has been transformed into the Juke Joint Chapel where live music plays. Newer options continue to push the eccentricity. The Squeezebox, a former downtown storefront, has just opened as a guest suite where the dcor includes a gold-painted parking meter, a lamp with a zebra-patterned shade and a flute as a base and an X-ray table converted into a headboard with images of blues men. 10. Hot tamales are a can't-miss culinary icon.  Don't even think of leaving the Delta without trying a hot tamale! Everybody loves these spicy, cigar-shaped cylinders of meat-filled cornmeal dough. They are sold in roadside kiosks, soul food cafes and expensive steak houses as appetizers, always with saltines and hot sauce. For more on how these shuck-wrapped sensations earned their place in Delta culture, check out Eatocracy's take on tamales. Susan Puckett is the former food editor of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution and the author of "Eat Drink Delta: A Hungry Traveler's Journey Through the Soul of the South" (University of Georgia Press, 2012).  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/01/travel/mexico-city-things-to-know/index.html	travel	10 things you didn't know about Mexico City - CNN.com	2014/05/01	Thursday May 1 08:13:05 EDT 2014	Editor's note: World-renowned chef, best-selling author and Emmy-winning television personality Anthony Bourdain has returned for the third season of "Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown." Tune in Sunday at 9 p.m. ET/PT as he visits Mexico. Follow the show on Twitter and Facebook. (CNN) -- Mexico City began as the home of an ancient empire and grew into a massive, modern metropolis. With more than 20 million people pulsing through its streets, it's one of the world's largest cities. That big-city bustle brings with it delicious food, massive markets and more cultural events in a day than anyone can ever keep track of. There's lavish wealth, devastating poverty and a lot to discover in Mexico's sprawling capital: 1. Looking to set a quirky record? Mexico City might be the world's best place to do it. One big perk of having so many people in the same place: It's easy to set a record if you can persuade enough of them to do the same thing at the same time. Records for the most people kissing simultaneously (39,879), the most people dancing to Michael Jackson's "Thriller" at the same time (13,597) and the world's biggest enchilada (weighing nearly 1.5 tons) have all been set inside the Mexican capital, according to Guinness World Records. 2. Gays and lesbians are welcome. For years, Latin America's deep-rooted ties to the Roman Catholic Church meant much of the region tended to take a more conservative tack when it came to homosexuality. But that's started to shift in recent years, and Mexico City has been at the forefront. Same-sex marriage is legal there. So is adoption by same-sex couples. And the city has marketed itself as a destination for gay tourists. In 2010, the city offered a free honeymoon to Latin America's first gay couple to wed. 3. You might have heard about the smog. They're working on it. Pollution in Mexico City used to be so bad that children painting pictures of the sky reportedly would color it gray, not blue. Because of its geographic location -- in a valley between mountains -- and the sheer number of cars traveling its streets, smog is a problem the city is still battling. But with government programs that encourage bike-riding and limit the number of days motorists can take to the streets, longtime residents say the pollution problem is much better than it used to be. Another innovative solution debuted last year: a hospital tower covered with a facade designed to "eat smog," breaking down pollutants when the sun hits it. Designers say the tiles on the facade of the Manuel Gea Gonzalez Hospital neutralize the effects of 1,000 cars every day. 4. The city was built on a lake. It's hard to imagine now, but much of the sprawling concrete jungle that now makes up Mexico City was once a large lake. The Aztecs constructed a massive civilization there, with Tenochtitlan serving as the capital. That city, which started out on an island and expanded to include reclaimed parts of the lake, thrived until the Spanish conquest. After winning the battle for control of the area in 1521, Spaniards destroyed Tenochtitlan and built Mexico City on top of its ruins, using canals and roads from the Aztec city as the basis for new streets and eventually draining the lake. But they didn't entirely erase the past. That's made for some fascinating ancient finds as Mexico City grew into a modern urban metropolis. In 1978, electrical company workers digging near the city's central square came upon an Aztec relic. That led to archaeologists unearthing ruins of the Templo Mayor, an Aztec temple that's now a popular tourist destination in Mexico City. 5. It's sinking. It turns out the dried-out bed of a big lake isn't the best foundation for building construction. If you want proof, take a look at some of Mexico City's most iconic structures. The sloped floor and a swinging pendulum inside the Metropolitan Cathedral show that the building is decidedly tilted. Head up Reforma Avenue to the Angel of Independence, and you'll need to walk up steps that the city built over the years as the area around the 1910 monument sank. Government officials have estimated that the city is sinking at a rate of 10 centimeters (4 inches) per year. A recent government report (PDF) estimated that Mexico City has sunk 10 meters (32.8 feet) in the past 60 years. 6. One of the world's richest men lives here. Mexican telecom mogul Carlos Slim topped Forbes Magazine's list of the world's richest men for four years. Microsoft founder Bill Gates reclaimed the No. 1 spot this year. But Slim and his family, with an estimated net worth of $71.4 billion, are still sitting comfortably in second place. Slim lives in Mexico City, and many of the companies he controls are based there, too. Even if you're just passing through the city, you're bound to come across his holdings. Talking on a Mexican cell phone? It's pretty likely that it's tied to Slim's company, Telcel, which controls 70% of Mexico's wireless market. Swinging by a department store? If you spend any time in Mexico City, you'll probably find a reason to stop at Sanborns, Slim's ubiquitous chain that contains restaurants, pharmacies and retail goods. Admiring beautiful buildings in the city's historic center? Slim helped finance a major facelift there in recent years. 7. It's safer than some parts of the country. Many Mexicans used to fear traveling to their nation's capital, concerned about crime. Street assaults and kidnapping are still major worries for residents and visitors. And in high-end neighborhoods, you might find a store selling bulletproof glass near a designer clothing boutique. But the city's homicide rate is on par with other major metropolises around the world. And with drug violence plaguing other parts of the country, Mexico City has actually earned a reputation as one of the safer places to go. 8. It's not just tacos and tequila. Don't expect to find much cheesy Tex-Mex fare here. The Mexico City culinary scene is muy caliente, with fancy restaurants in posh hotels and top chefs saying they come here for inspiration. Pujol, a restaurant in the city's posh Polanco neighborhood, ranks among the world's top eateries. But it's not all about fine dining. Market stalls and street stands serve up some of the city's most delicious food. If you're looking for tequila, it's not hard to get it. But if you want to drink like a local, try mezcal or pulque. All three drinks are made from agave plants. Tequila comes from blue agave. Mezcal can be made from different types of agave plants and has become a popular drink for hipsters in Mexico's capital. So has pulque, a 2,000-year-old Aztec drink made from fermented but undistilled agave juice. 9. The subway is fast, cheap and fascinating. While many businessmen and foreigners who live in the city rely on taxis and car services, Mexico City's metro is still the most popular way to get around for the masses. Protests after authorities announced plans to raise fees last year weren't successful. But taking the subway is still pretty cheap: just 5 pesos (about 40 cents) for a ticket. And it's not just a way to get from point A to point B. For some people, stations on the city's 12 subway lines are a destination. There are shops, libraries, art exhibits and even computer labs inside. A pedestrian tunnel between two subway stations in the heart of the city boasts more than 40 bookstores. 10. It's not all loud noise and concrete.  If you need a break from the bustle, it takes only a short subway ride in Mexico City to reach places where you'll feel like you stepped back in time. Neighborhoods like San Angel and Coyoacan (where artists Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo made their home) have cobblestone streets, beautiful buildings and quaint cafes that will give you a chance to catch your breath. CNN's Nick Parker contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/24/travel/lyon-outshines-paris/index.html	travel	8 ways Lyon outshines Paris - CNN.com	2014/04/24	Thursday Apr 24 05:41:31 EDT 2014	Editor's note: World-renowned chef, best-selling author and Emmy-winning television personality Anthony Bourdain has returned for the third season of "Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown." The series, shot entirely on location, airs on CNN on Sundays at 9 p.m. ET/PT. Follow the show on Twitter and Facebook. (CNN) -- Paris, we can all agree, has a lot going for it. It has splendid museums, grand avenues, a famous pointy tower and thousands of cafes where you can order a minuscule coffee for a fairly large amount of money. But Lyon is a supremely qualified rival. In Lyon, a hearty serving of tradition Smaller it may be, but France's second city has a sophistication that makes it a hugely intriguing option for visitors. While the following suggestions may cause rioting (or, at least, mild shrugs of indifference) along the Champs-Elysees, there are a number of ways Lyon outshines the French capital. Eight, in fact. 1. Wine Just about everyone in France loves wine. But in contrast to Paris -- which sips anything fruity put in front of it, but doesn't produce anything of its own -- Lyon brings a bottle to the party. A lot of bottles. Lyon is the gateway to the Beaujolais viticultural region, which fans out immediately to the northwest. From Lyon, you can explore these whispering vineyards yourself. Or you can take the easy route and make a few wise purchases in the excellent wine shops around the city. Cave Chromatique does flavorsome reds and whites, while La Cave des Vins Magnifiques is hardly short on confidence when it comes to the contents of its stock list. 2. Notre Dames Paris's Notre Dame Cathedral is an inimitable French icon, especially if you like long lines and pigeons. Lyon's Notre Dame -- the Basilica of Notre-Dame de Fourviere -- is, simply, a more beautiful church. A young maiden (built 1872-1884) compared with Paris's grande dame (built 1163-1345), she sits prettily atop the city's main hill, offering views down to the riverside streets below, and, on clear days, across to the snowcaps of the Alps. 3. Outdoor music Lyon knows how to put on a summer extravaganza. The Nuits de Fourviere festival sees 60 or so shows -- rock, classical music, drama -- stretched across the warm evenings of June and July. Alumni of this wide showcase include Lou Reed, Bjork and Sting. The 2014 lineup includes French pop stalwarts Phoenix and U.S. indie veterans the Pixies. Better than any band, though, is a setting that Paris can't match. The French capital may have modern venues befitting its size and status, but it can't dance the night away as if Caesar Augustus were still in the posh seats. The majority of the Nuits de Fourviere performances take place amid the sturdy tiers of Lyon's main Roman amphitheater, which dates to 15 B.C. 4. Cinematic history Paris has been in many movies. "Moulin Rouge." "Amelie." "Midnight in Paris." But Lyon pretty much invented the movies. Or, at least, two of its most famous sons did. Auguste and Louis Lumiere are credited with creating the first film camera (the cinematograph) in 1892. You can pay tribute to their vision at Lyon's Institut Lumiere, with its museum and cinema. 5. Food Paris is very good at cuisine. It's just that Lyon believes it's better. It may well be. Its restaurants include L'Auberge du Pont de Collonges, a fabled temple of Gallic gastronomy which has three Michelin stars. It's overseen by French uber-chef Paul Bocuse, who is now 88, but still a master at his signature truffle soup. Then there's La Mere Brazier, which exists under the gaze of Mathieu Viannay. The restaurant has two Michelin stars, but Viannay is only 46, so can be excused his shortfall. 6. Parks Paris doesn't have a large central green space -- unless you count the Jardins des Tuileries, which are predominantly surfaced in gravel, and are therefore white. But Lyon has the Parc de la Tete d'Or, which -- with its 117 hectares of grass and trees -- cozies up to the Rhone in the sixth arrondissement. Here, you can go boating on the lake, cycle along winding pathways, or simply lie in the shade and remark on the fact that this metropolitan lung's name -- Park of the Golden Head -- sounds a bit silly in English. 7. Roman history In numbers, this is basically a tie. Julius Caesar stomped his sandals into the fledgling Paris in 52 B.C.; Lyon had its first date with expansionist toga-wearing proto-Italians when it was founded as Lugdunum a decade later in 43 B.C. But Lyon was the more important city under Roman rule -- a teacher's pet that became Rome's head boy in ancient Gaul. This still shows. Lyon's Roman structures are almost as impressive today as they were in the days of the gladiators -- especially the remnants of its public baths and the giant amphitheater on Fourviere hill at the Gallo-Roman Museum.  8. Rivers Why did the Romans plonk Lugdunum onto the map where they did? Because the place was ideal for a settlement. West of the Alps, it was a decent stop-off point halfway up France and not too far from the mother city. But above that, because it had -- and has -- two rivers. The Rhone, which is so long that it has to travel from Switzerland, curves through the center of Lyon. So does the Saone. The two meet in the aptly titled district of Confluence. Paris, by contrast, has just one river, the Seine. Ah, c'est dommage. Chris Leadbeater (@LeadbeaterChris) is a former British Travel Writer of the Year who visits and writes about France on a regular basis. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/07/travel/usa-caves/index.html	travel	8 amazing American caves - CNN.com	2014/05/07	Wednesday May 7 10:59:24 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Far beneath our feet, amazing caverns yawn and twist. The heart of anyone who stumbles on one must race with the thrill of discovery as well as a terror of encountering creatures in the dark. Formed by geological processes over thousands of years, caves in the United States were often used by Native Americans well before Europeans arrived. Though mapped, excavated and fitted with lights and guard rails, "show caves" -- those open to the public for tours -- are still fascinating to explore, especially when the sun burns hot above. Underground streams, spectacular rock formations and cool, consistent temperatures of about 44 F to 56 F (about 7 F to 13 C) lure visitors underground. Here are eight spectacular U.S. caves: Carlsbad Caverns  Carlsbad, New Mexico The most famous of America's underground destinations is the 46,000-acre Carlsbad Caverns National Park in New Mexico. Visitors can take a self-guided tour of the main rooms, or a ranger-led foray into creepily named niches such as the Hall of the White Giant, the Rookery and Spider Cave. Speaking of creepy, swarms of bats make a great show for visitors during summertime, leaving the cave each evening and returning in the early hours; call the park (575-785-3012) for exact times to watch their flight. Entrance fee is $10 for adults, free for children 15 and under. Guided tours are extra and vary in difficulty, length and age requirements. For guided tour reservations, call 877-444-6777 or visit recreation.gov. Glenwood Caverns  Glenwood Springs, Colorado In the 1890s, the Fairy Caves in Glenwood Springs became some of the first caves in the world lit with electric lights. Following an 82-year closure, they reopened in 1999, and today visitors ride gondolas up a 4,300-foot tramway to the entrance. The original Fairy Caves, which contain nooks such as the Exclamation Point lookout and Eternal Towers underground canyon, were damaged by exposure early on but are undergoing gradual restoration. The fully preserved Glenwood Caverns section can be seen on foot or via a more challenging crawling tour. Glenwood Caverns Adventure Park also offers thrill rides such as roller coasters and the Giant Canyon Swing. Entrance and cave tour are $25 for adults, $20 for children; Wild Cave Tour $60. 800-530-1635; www.glenwoodcaverns.com Luray Caverns  Luray, Virginia At Luray Caverns in the Shenandoah Valley you'll find resplendent limestone formations, cascading like endless dollops of rich ice cream. They're also reminiscent of giant church organs, and in the 1950s mathematician Leland Sprinkle rigged up the Great Stalacpipe Organ, a contraption with mallets that strike stalactites to produce an otherworldly sound. It's played for every tour by an automated system. Admission -- including tour and entrance to Luray Valley Museum -- is $29 adults, $17 children 6-12 and free for children 5 and under. Tickets to a Garden Maze and Rope Adventure Park on site can be bought separately. 540-743-6551; www.luraycaverns.com Howe Caverns  Howes Cave, New York In a pasture 40 miles west of Albany in 1842, Lester Howe noticed his cows gathered on a spot where cool breezes could be felt. His investigations led him into dark recesses extending 15 stories below ground, including a subterranean lake extending for a quarter mile. Contemporary visitors to Howe Caverns can take a 90-minute walking tour with boat ride, a two-hour lantern tour that recreates the lighting of Howe's early descents, or a two-hour spelunking tour. The traditional tour is $25 adults, $13-$21 for children 5-15 and free for children under 5. Reservations are required on lantern and spelunking tours, which are $35 and $108, respectively, and have age and fitness requirements. Outside attractions such as a rock wall, air jumper and ropes course are ticketed separately. 518-296-8900; www.howecaverns.com Niagara Cave  Harmony, Minnesota Like Niagara Falls, Niagara Cave has made a name for itself as a home for romance and matrimony: Its underground wedding chapel has been the site of more than 400 nuptials. Located in Minnesota's Amish country southeast of the Twin Cities, the cave also boasts a 60-foot waterfall. Well-preserved marine fossils dating back hundreds of millions of years are another highlight of the hourlong tour, which costs $14 for adults, $8 for children 4-12, and is free for children 3 and under. 800-837-6606; www.niagracave.com Oregon Caves  Cave Junction, Oregon Nicknamed "the Marble Halls of Oregon," the Oregon Caves National Monument is one of the few marble caverns to be found. It features rooms such as Paradise Lost, the Ghost Room and Banana Grove; an underground stream called the River Styx; and hunger-inducing formations named for popcorn, bacon and soda straws. Discovered by a 19th-century bear hunter, the cave contains the 50,000-year-old remnants of a grizzly, among other fossils. Tours are $8.50 for adults, $6 for 16 and under. Children must be 42 inches or taller to take part in the 90-minute guided cave tour, which covers 500 stairs and climbs 230 feet. Spelunking tours are available by reservation for $30 per person. 541-592-2100; www.nps.gov/orca Marengo Cave  Marengo, Indiana Accounts of Marengo Cave's discovery differ in their details, but the story of a young brother and sister who ventured in with candles in 1883 is enchanting enough to be represented on the attraction's logo. Choose from a 40- or 60-minute guided walking tour; the latter takes in the Penny Ceiling, an upside-down wishing well where coins tossed upward stick to thick silt. Tours are $14.50-$16.50 for adults, $8-$9 for children 12 and under. Also: cave exploring tours for $29-$99 per person and canoe trips on the nearby Blue River. 888-702-2837; www.marengocave.com Penn's Cave  Centre Hall, Pennsylvania Don't feel like trekking? Consider Penn's Cave, where you cruise along an underground stream, watching trout swim below and formations drift by. One stalagmite is dubbed "the Statue of Liberty," but these caves were known well before that landmark was built. A fanciful legend describes an 18th-century French trapper who eloped with the Indian maiden Nita-Nee against Indian custom and was left to perish in the cave's far reaches. Tours cost $17.50 for adults, $9.25 for children 2-12, children under 2 free. Combination tickets also cover a bus tour of the adjacent wildlife park. 814-364-8778; www.pennscave.com .  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/02/travel/50-states-50-spots-for-2014/index.html	travel	50 states, 50 spots for 2014 - CNN.com	2014/01/02	Thursday Jan 2 10:01:20 EST 2014	(CNN) -- The coasts get all the glory in the United States, but there's something fun to do in each and every state. Yes, every state. Not a believer? We're going to prove it. To welcome 2014, CNN is offering a travel suggestion for each of the 50 states. From some of the country's most glorious national parks to arts festivals and cowboy culture, we've got you covered. Please tell us what we've missed in the comments section below. Did we completely overlook the best thing going in your neck of the woods? Set us straight with suggestions for possible inclusion in a future story.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/09/travel/visiting-all-50-states/index.html	travel	Alabama crowns 50-state odyssey - CNN.com	2014/05/09	Friday May 9 08:19:21 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Have you visited all 50 states? Or are you close to checking them all off? Share your stories with CNN iReport. (CNN) -- When my airplane touched down in Birmingham, Alabama, I could not stop grinning. The trip last weekend fulfilled a lifelong dream to visit all 50 states. At age 31, I reached my goal. Alabama may not be at the top of many travel wish lists -- it wasn't on mine -- but its layered history offers many memorable experiences. I took an airport selfie right away, holding a map of the USA on which I proudly wrote, "I've been to ALL 50 states!" It's a map my dad pulled out of a phone book when I was a kid, penciling in the year we checked off each state. I've carried that simple map along on my travels, slowly filling it in. Collecting states is a family tradition. My sister Mary reached 50 states when she was 21 and two of my uncles reached it in their 40s. My father has been to 49 states and my mother has been to 48. By the time I was a year old, I had been to 10 states, and by the time I was seven, I'd visited 25. Over the past four years, I've traveled frequently for work, often visiting 20 to 25 states a year, and I have been to most states multiple times. There's a lot of debate around what counts as a visit. Some people believe you need to stay overnight or eat a meal. Others count airport layovers. In my family, we say you need to stand on the ground in the state. Despite all of my travel, I've had to make a handful of dashes across a border to cross off a state still on my list, but even those trips create lasting memories. When I was 22, my cousin Maureen drove my sister, other relatives and me from her home in Memphis across the borders of Mississippi and Arkansas. The occasion for our visit was very sad: Her mother had just died from ovarian cancer. But driving us to neighboring states is what her mom would have done if she were alive to help us with our goal, Maureen said. For North Dakota, Oklahoma, and New Mexico, I tacked solo road trips onto business travel in neighboring states, driving up to 600 miles round-trip just to check off a state. In the other 45 states, I've spent time meeting people who live there, sampling the food and the local attractions. I've had Whoopie pies in Maine, Skyline Chili in Ohio, hush puppies in North Carolina, fried dill pickles in Texas, huckleberry ice cream in Montana and poke in Hawaii. 50 states, 50 spots for 2014 I've lived in seven states from coast to coast, and I don't identify any one of them as home. The nation is my home, with its diverse landscapes, communities and landmarks. Plus, a college degree in history heightened my curiosity about the places I've studied. History is filled with a mixture of tragedy and triumph, and Alabama certainly fits. Capping off my American tour in Alabama was a meaningful way to end, but in truth visiting Heart of Dixie last was accidental. I thought a trip to a wedding in Hawaii with my partner Mark in January would fulfill my goal and I even bragged about it on Facebook. But then I dug up my dad's map on the day of our flight and saw that both Alabama and New Mexico were blank. Oops. So the quest continued. I visited New Mexico in February and my mom said she'd meet me in Alabama in May. She flew from Florida while I came from Virginia. We planned a trip centered around heroines of history and literature. In Montgomery, we stood at the very spot where Rosa Parks boarded the racially segregated bus in 1955 and refused to give up her seat. A number of other women, many of whom worked at the nearby university, had been brainstorming a bus boycott and jumped into action that night. After 13 months, their boycott worked. We drove down to Monroeville, the hometown of Harper Lee, where we watched a play based on her 1960 book "To Kill a Mockingbird" at the courthouse that inspired the setting in her book. The 1903 courthouse is now a museum with exhibits about Lee and her famous neighbor Truman Capote. This literary classic ranks among my favorite books, and it felt likes stepping back in time to see the volunteer actors perform it in Lee's hometown. Before the performance, we followed a walking tour map to Mel's Dairy Bar, the spot where Lee's childhood home had once stood and paid silent homage to her. The literary tour continued in Irondale because my mom and I love the Towanda-power of the movie "Fried Green Tomatoes" (1991) and the book that inspired it, "Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Caf" (1987) by Fannie Flagg. Flagg's great aunt co-owned the Irondale Caf, which was the inspiration for the fictional caf. As a steady stream of trains whistled by, we tucked into greasy, tasty fried green tomatoes and other Southern cuisine. Back in Birmingham, we took another look at some of the state's most troubling past at the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church -- where four girls died in a bombing -- and Kelly Ingram Park -- where white people attacked unarmed black children protesting segregation. Both events occurred in 1963 at the height of the civil rights movement. Visiting the sites highlighted for us the bravery of those seeking equality and the brutality of those who opposed them. We spent hours at the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute. When we started, there were students running all around us, noisily doing a scavenger hunt, but by the end, we were alone, absorbed in the exhibits. . From slavery to segregation to the heroic tactics to end it, the institute tells the gripping, moving story of change through printed words, audio clips and film. Women were appropriately honored for their crucial role, especially their on-the-ground organizing, something that too many history books and people overlook. From visiting national parks and historic landmarks to meeting kind and interesting people in big cities and small towns alike, I've had many memorable trips. But learning more about and honoring women I admire, both real and fictional, with the added benefit of spending time with my mother, puts the Alabama weekend near the top of the list. And of course, thanks to this trip I finally have the bragging rights to say I've been to all 50 states! Do you have a 50-state goal? Share your stories and photos with iReport and tell us about your experiences below. Holly Kearl runs the nonprofit organization Stop Street Harassment, works for UN Women and the OpEd Project, and is an adjunct professor of women's studies at George Mason University. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/22/travel/nature-must-see-shows/index.html	travel	15 of nature's most spectacular shows - CNN.com	2014/04/22	Tuesday Apr 22 08:08:13 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Fireworks are fantastic and human endeavor has its place, but sometimes Mother Nature outshines any performance we can produce. Check out 15 of our favorite nature shows and a spot where you can witness them. While a few involve a bit of human enterprise or cultivation, most are pretty wild and easily eclipse anything Hollywood can dream up. Glowing phytoplankton Where else can you walk on the beach at night and leave nothing but blue, sparkling footprints? Visit Vaadhoo Island where millions of blue starry lights gleam in the crashing surf. The small island is part of the Raa Atoll in the stunning Maldives archipelago in the Indian Ocean. The lights emanate from tiny marine microbes which, when jostled by the ocean waters, create a cellular-level chemical reaction that emits light. The effect is startling and romantic and even disorienting when, on starry nights, the ocean appears to mirror the sky. Stay nearby at the ultra-luxurious Conrad Maldives Rangali Island resort, which spans two islands and features an all-glass undersea restaurant. Day trips to surrounding islands are also available. 10 record-setting natural wonders in the U.S. Monarch butterfly migration  Tucked 60 miles northwest of Mexico City in the Sierra Madre is the Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve, a sanctuary for millions of monarch butterflies that migrate here yearly from east of the Rocky Mountains. Nearly 35 million monarch butterflies make the 3,000 mile trip from Canada and North America to warmer winter climates. The best time to visit the reserve is late October through early November when most butterflies have arrived. Take a walking tour of the land around the reserve and watch thousands of these orange-winged beauties cling to the fir trees and dine on milkweed. Grab a bike and take a ride on approved trails, enjoy the scenery on horseback, dine on local cuisine and book a zipline tour, widely available in the region. The most insane new U.S. roller coasters Aurora borealis Glimpses of this spectacular light show are visible in the Northern Hemisphere's auroral zone near the northern magnetic pole. These swirling lights -- mostly green, but red and blue lights glow at higher altitudes -- are produced when charged particles in the magnetosphere and solar wind collide with atoms. While it's hard to predict when the northern lights will come out to play, we recommend looking for them in Norway from September to March, where you can chase the aurora borealis by boat, snowmobile, dog sled, snowshoe trek or minibus. Try heading to the pristine Svalbard Islands in the Arctic Ocean, bunking in a rustic hotel such as Mary-Ann's Polarrigg and booking a moonlight glacier walk or a dog sledding expedition. 29 beach photos that'll make you drool Cherry blossoms Each April the South Korean city of Changwon is transformed by nearly 360,000 blossoming cherry trees with light pink and white blossoms that flutter from the trees and cover the ground like a light, spring snowfall. The city celebrates the beauty with a 10-day cherry blossom festival in the Jinhae area that attracts more than a million visitors. Take a monorail up Mount Jehwang to Jinhae Tower, where you can see a panoramic view of this naval port city and the magnificent blooms. Take a day excursion out of Jinhae Bay to see fishermen haul in a catch, or watch one of several military parades. It's recommended that visitors walk, bike or take a train to avoid traffic snarls. Glacier calving  Watching chunks of ice the size of buildings peel off glaciers and plunge into the icy waters of Alaska's Glacier Bay National Park will set your pulse racing. Take a boat tour into the chilly waters and get a look at the mighty glaciers that began forming here nearly 4,000 years ago during the Little Ice Age. Today, many of the glaciers are melting, especially on the east and southwest sides of the bay, which can yield some pretty impressive calving. Consider booking a flight over Glacier Bay National Park, or go for a hike on established trails near Bartlett Cove. Plan to visit in early summer when rainfall is diminished Volcanic eruptions Travel to the South Pacific island nation of Vanuatu for a peek at one of the world's most accessible (once you get there) and active volcanoes: Mount Yasur. Located on Tanna Island, this volcano has been erupting nearly continuously since at least the 18th century. Despite Mount Yasur's frequent eruptions, the ferocity of its explosions is fairly subdued, allowing visitors to regularly approach the volcano's crater. But as with any of nature's unpredictable outbursts, this natural fireworks show is not without risk. Book a day tour or plan an overnight excursion on which you can follow a guide to the crater and watch molten magma spark while the sun sets and the stars emerge overhead. Or book a flight over the simmering volcano and get the view of a lifetime. Monkey temple  Some of nature's shows are intriguing for the strange juxtaposition of wild and man-made. Carved into a mountain pass outside Jaipur in the Rajasthan state in India is a Hindu temple site complete with seven bathing tanks fed by natural springs and tribes of macaque and langur monkeys who climb the stone structure and reside in the hallowed halls. The main temple building at the Galtaji complex is constructed of pink stone and there are a number of architecturally interesting pavilions, two-tier man-made waterfalls and painted walls. But what many find charming about this crumbling temple are the monkeys who peek at visitors from around stone columns and eagerly and unabashedly eat the snacks visitors offer. In Jaipur, arrange a motorbike or tuk tuk (three-wheel motorcycle with driver) to make the short drive to the temple gates. Tulip fields Stroll hand-in-hand through vast tulip, daffodil and hyacinth fields in the world's largest garden in Lisse, Holland. Known as Keukenhof, or "kitchen garden," this flower extravaganza covers 79 acres and boasts more than 7 million flower bulbs planted yearly. Open only from mid-March to mid-May, the Keukenhof treats visitors to a variety of garden styles, including an English-style landscape complete with intimate winding paths. Built in 1642, the Castle Keukenhof stands directly opposite the magnificent gardens. Order a simple meal from a caf in the park and have a picnic lunch among the blooms. Bear feast  This spectacle is a two-for-one: As the sockeye salmon run really gets going at Alaska's Katmai National Park and Preserve, so, too, does bear feasting. In late June, sockeye salmon begin their return from the ocean, swimming upstream where they eventually deposit their young in the gravel river and lake bottoms where they were born. The salmon may return en masse in part to overwhelm the bears, who can't possibly eat them all. But the resident brown bears give it their best shot, and the feeding can be frenzied. Visit Katmai's Brooks Camp in July or September when "bears are everywhere," according to the National Park Service. One of the top brown bear viewing spots in the world, Katmai is home to about 2,200 brown bears. There are three viewing platforms in the camp along the Brooks River where the bears gather to gobble up salmon. Be sure to give them plenty of space and get familiar with bear safety before your trip. To get to Brooks Camp, fly a commercial airline from Anchorage to King Salmon and then take KatmaiAir to Brooks Camp. Stay at Brooks Lodge or the Brooks Camp campground. Geysers  Yellowstone National Park in the United States contains the world's largest collection of geysers, which are caused by natural plumbing constrictions combined with water and steam heated by magma under the Earth's surface. Old Faithful is the most famous of the park's geothermal attractions, spewing water and steam roughly every 90 minutes up to about 180 feet high. Because of its predictability, it is one of the most scientifically studied geysers in the world. Just behind Old Faithful in Yellowstone's Upper Basin is Beehive Geyser. It is a less predictable geyser, but it has an impressive eruption. While you're visiting Yellowstone, make sure to check out Yellowstone Lake, the largest high-altitude lake in the continental United States. Check in at Lake Yellowstone Hotel, a luxurious, historic and oft-renovated structure that dates back to 1891. Wildebeest migration Often termed the Great Migration, millions of wildebeest, zebra and gazelle thunder through northern Tanzania and Kenya each year in search of food, water and breeding grounds. One of the best ways to view this massive movement is to join a mobile safari that allows people to keep up with the fast-moving herds. From April to December, the Serengeti's wildebeest are on the move seeking fresh grasslands and water, and they only stop migrating from December to early April to feed and birth their young. One of the most magnificent scenes of the Great Migration occurs in September when the herds come face-to-face with the wild Mara River in the northern Serengeti and must plow through its strong currents and crocodile-infested waters. Consider the Sayari Camp to be close to the river crossings. Perseid meteor shower  Every year from mid-July through late August the Earth rotates through space debris left from the Swift-Tuttle Comet and gives us a beautiful show in the dark night sky. The Swift-Tuttle is the largest known object, roughly six miles in diameter, to make repeated passes near Earth. Best viewed in clear, predawn skies sometime after the first week in August, catch the show during a camping trip into the Colorado back country or any wide open space far from the lights of the city. Unfortunately, watchers will face a challenge this summer from the waning gibbous moon. Waterfall wonder  Locals call it The Smoke That Thunders, but it's widely known as Victoria Falls. Located in Zambia and Zimbabwe, it is a breathtaking sight. Victoria Falls is the largest curtain of falling water in the world, approximately twice as wide and twice as deep as Niagara Falls in North America. Daredevils may want to swim in the Devil's Pool, a small naturally formed pool just feet from the waterfall's edge. Bungee jumping and whitewater rafting are also popular activities. The waterfall is at its peak flow, and most impressive, in late spring and early summer, but the mist generated from it can make getting close and capturing great photos difficult. During these months, an air tour is a good option. Barracuda tornado  The spectacular diving off Sipadan Island in Malaysia gets dizzying as thousands of fish at Barracuda Point spin up their own tornado-like funnels. Diving companions in this part of the world might also include hammerhead sharks, manta rays and giant sea turtles. Long considered one of the top diving destinations in the world, this area features more than 3,000 species of fish and hundreds of coral species, too. Here, the bumphead parrotfish shares space with whale sharks. Turtle Cave, an undersea maze of limestone, is a sobering dive as the cave is littered with the skeletons of sea turtles that drowned as they got lost and couldn't surface. In order to preserve the pristine environment, there are no accommodations on Sipadan Island, but visitors can stay on close-by Mabul or Kapalai. Sandhill crane migration  It's a sign of spring after a quiet winter: The trumpeting of thousands of sandhill cranes on the banks of the Platte River in Kearney, Nebraska. It's estimated that nearly 350,000 sandhill cranes migrate each year, and many of them congregate in early spring, usually March, in Nebraska and "trumpet" to each other with distinctive calls. Make sure to join Audubon's Nebraska Crane Festival next year to get great views of these migratory birds. Join fellow birders on day outings to spot other feathered species or visit Fort Kearny State Historical Park.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/06/travel/natural-records-united-states/index.html	travel	10 record-setting natural wonders in the U.S. - CNN.com	2014/03/06	Thursday Mar 6 08:21:23 EST 2014	Editor's note: Please tell us about the natural wonders in your state. Share your suggestions in the comments section below. (CNN) -- Maybe we've been cooped up too much this winter, but now more than ever, the natural wonders of our world are beckoning to us from behind gray computer monitors, buzzing cell phones and the million red brake lights ahead of us on the long commute home. We yearn to leave the laundry, the dishes and the bills behind and swap them out for something bigger, deeper and taller than we could ever be; something that will, at once, make us feel insignificant and perfectly in place. Pack your bags and wear comfortable shoes, because we've compiled a list of nature's record setters in the United States that will make for great vacation memories. 29 beach photos that'll make you drool Deepest lake in the U.S. Looking to be gobsmacked by nature? Visit Crater Lake in south-central Oregon. Created by the eruption and ultimate collapse of Mount Mazama more than 7,000 years ago, water filled the caldera, or ring-like indentation left after the explosion, creating the deepest lake (592 meters; 1,943 feet) in the United States. In winter, snowshoeing expeditions give a peek into the wilds of this natural wonder. But make sure to visit this beauty in the summertime, too, when more of the Crater Lake National Park is accessible. A two-hour trolley tour circles the rim of the lake and allows visitors four scheduled stops. Hop aboard a summer lake cruise, weather permitting, and catch a glimpse of the famed "Old Man of the Lake," a large tree stump that has been floating vertically in the cold water for nearly a century. Bicyclists rave about the 33-mile loop around the rim of Crater Lake, but be warned that the route features steep climbs and brilliant views in equal portion. Crater Lake Lodge first opened its doors in 1915 and is a rustic, sweeping homage to the 1920s, complete with a Great Hall and oversized fireplace. It is open seasonally, usually May to October. 10 of the world's coolest underground wonders Largest living tree in the world You're going to need a very long set of arms to hug the largest living tree in the world. Dubbed General Sherman after the Civil War general, this behemoth lives in the north end of Giant Forrest in Sequoia National Park, California, and towers about 84 meters (275 feet) high. At its base, this giant is about 31 meters (103 feet) around, roughly equal to fourteen and a half Shaquille O'Neals lying head-to-foot around the base of the tree. Despite its impressive height and width, it is not the tallest or widest tree around. Instead, its distinction as the largest living tree is judged by the volume of its huge trunk -- 52,500 cubic feet . Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks lie adjacent to each other in the southern Sierra Nevada and make a wonderful playground, no matter the season. In May, Crystal Cave, a large, naturally-forged underground cave with stream-polished rock formations and large marble rooms, opens to the public. In the winter, book a room at the rustic John Muir Lodge, located just minutes from General Sherman, and take a cross-country ski trip into the snow-draped forests. Lowest and hottest spot in the U.S. If you've had it up to your hairline with ice storms and snow days, plan a getaway to the hottest, lowest place in the United States: Death Valley. It may sound like a depressing destination, but this place boasts some of the most adaptable plant and animal life on the planet. Death Valley is 86 meters (282 feet) below sea level and was formed when movement in the earth's crust along a fault line caused the land to sink. From Telescope Peak, the highest mountain in the national park at 11,049 feet, to the Badwater Basin floor is nearly a two-mile drop, twice the depth of the Grand Canyon. The average rainfall for the area is less than 2 inches per year. A record high of 134F (57C) was recorded in Death Valley on July 10, 1913. The park is open year-round, but guided ranger tours are available only in the cooler months from November to April, and they are a great way to learn more about the geology and history of this fascinating desert. Full Moon festivals, available in the cooler months of the year, give visitors the opportunity to see how this desolate landscape changes at night. After a long, hot day of exploring the desert, check into the elegant Inn at Furnace Creek, a well-appointed resort with spa amenities, spring-fed swimming pools, an 18-hole golf course and stone patios with sunset views. Most affordable Caribbean islands World's tallest mountain (measured from the ocean floor) If stargazing is your passion, you can't get much better than Mauna Kea, a dormant volcano in Hawaii that, when measured from the ocean floor, is taller than Mount Everest, the world's highest mountain by altitude. From its ocean-floor base, Mauna Kea measures more than 10,000 meters (about 33,000 feet) or a little more than six miles. Historically, the summit of Mauna Kea has been considered a spiritual place to native Hawaiians and only royalty and tribal chiefs were allowed to visit. Today, the summit is still spiritually relevant for many people, but thousands of visitors make the arduous trip each year to visit observatories perched at the summit. Every night, regardless of weather, the Visitor Information Station at the Onizuka Center for International Astronomy holds a free public stargazing program. Book a room at the Shipman House Bed and Breakfast and relax in the sunny, privately owned Victorian mansion, complete with more than 20 tropical fruit tree varieties blooming in the garden. Highest mountain in North America If the rugged, wild terrain of Alaska is what your wanderlusting heart needs, book a trip to Denali National Park and Preserve in Alaska. This mammoth park -- roughly half the size of Rhode Island -- is home to the highest mountain (as measured from its base) in North America: Mount McKinley. The mountain is 6,194 meters (20,320 feet) high. At night, if you camp anytime from August through May, you might glimpse the Aurora Borealis or Northern Lights. These vivid braids and streaks of light, sometimes red, sometimes green, can brighten the deep dark skies over Denali and take your breath away. Explore slabs of rocks that geologists have begun referring to as the dinosaur dance floors because of the high number of fossilized footprints they've discovered. There are no National Park Service accommodations in the park, but you can find stellar digs at Camp Denali and North Face Lodge, two privately owned full-service lodges that feature guided outings and flightseeing tours. Tallest natural bridge in the U.S. The amazing natural structure at Rainbow Bridge National Monument in Utah is estimated to be more than 200 million years old, and it stands 88 meters (290 feet) tall. Rainbow Bridge is considered to be the highest natural land bridge in the United States, and its name hints at the unique color striations formed from layers of different types of sandstone which became hardened and fused together by wild fluctuations in the climate through the Triassic and Jurassic periods. Geologists estimate that several million years ago heavy rains and a rising river gradient swept through the area, cutting wide swaths through the water-soluble sandstone and creating many interesting shapes in the landscape. Today, most visitors gawk at the bridge from a viewing platform, but some folks may backpack along the Navajo Mountain trail once they've acquired the appropriate permit from the Navajo Nation. Lake Powell, a reservoir of the Colorado River that straddles the border between Utah and Arizona, is relatively nearby and provides access by boat to the famous land bridge. One of the best ways to experience the spectacular landscape is to rent a houseboat and navigate Lake Powell via the more than 2,000 miles of shoreline. The sunniest place in the world If you're ready to trade in your parka and mittens for shorts and sunglasses, seek out a place where sunshine beams down 90 percent of the year. Yuma, Arizona, is the nation's sunniest city and the least humid place in the United States, according to the National Climatic Data Center. It's also the sunniest place in the world, according to the Guinness Book of World Records. Also, Yuma boasts the least number of days of precipitation in the nation: on average, 16 days per year. Several side trips outside of Yuma are worth taking. Bring your mountain bike and head out for an 11-mile trek in the Laguna Mountains area. Thirty miles north of Yuma is a must-see for history buffs: Castle Dome Landing is a ghost town and museum featuring 23 restored and recreated buildings, including a saloon and blacksmith. Northernmost point in the continental U.S. If the desert isn't calling your name, and ice fishing sounds alluring, head for an obscure little corner of Minnesota called Northwest Angle Inlet. The locals call the township "the Angle," and at 49.22 north latitude, it is the northernmost point in the contiguous United States. (Point Barrow, Alaska, is the northernmost point in all U.S. territory). The only way to get to "The Angle" is to drive through Canada or boat through Manitoba Bay. The Angle is a fisherman's paradise with plenty of walleye and bass, depending on the time of year you visit. Go on an ice fishing adventure with the Red Fox Ice Fishing Company and try out their heated fishing houses. They also rent private, lakefront cabins complete with a cast iron skillet perfect for frying up your catch. A nine-hole golf course offers a respite from fishing, and in the warmer months, berry picking is the activity of choice. By contrast, if you're hoping for warmer climes, try visiting the southernmost city in the continental United States: Key West, Florida. Its laid-back reputation and independent culture woos artists of all stripes, including authors Ernest Hemingway and Tennessee Williams, both of whom owned homes in the city. Deepest canyon in North America The Grand Canyon in Arizona may be immense, boasting nearly 277 river miles in length, but for sheer depth, Hells Canyon in eastern Oregon, eastern Washington and western Idaho wins hands-down. At its deepest, the canyon plunges 2,452 meters (8,043 feet) from the tip of He Devil Peak to the Snake River. The deepest part of the Grand Canyon is a mere 1,829 meters (6,000 feet). Hells Canyon was carved with the help of the Snake River which begins in western Wyoming, winds through the Snake River Plains, descends into the rocky Hells Canyon and eventually empties into the Columbia River. Make sure to view the Rush Creek Rapids from the majestic Hat Point lookout, the highest point of Hells Canyon on the Oregon side. Follow the Hells Canyon Scenic Byway, a 218-mile stretch of winding road that slips through much diverse landscape -- from the snow-tipped Wallowa Mountains to lush valleys. Book a night stay at the quiet, rustic Pine Valley Lodge in Halfway, Oregon. Longest river in the U.S. At more than 2,500 miles, the Missouri River is the longest in the United States, beginning in the Rocky Mountains of Montana, winding generally south and east before joining the mighty Mississippi River near St. Louis, Missouri. "Big Muddy" passes through seven states -- Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, North and South Dakota, Montana and Wyoming -- and explorers Lewis and Clark nearly followed its entire length before realizing that the waterway stopped short of the Pacific Ocean. Three Forks, Montana, where the "Big Muddy" originates, is a city worthy of exploration. Start your stay at the Sacajawea Hotel, a recently renovated historic building, and get your waders ready because Three Forks is fly fishing country. Soak in the beauty of snowcapped mountains and cold, blue waters teeming with trout. Go canoeing in the headwaters and watch great blue herons fish near the banks. It's not uncommon to spot a moose lumbering along in the distance. Check out the intricate limestone caverns lined with beautiful stalactites and stalagmites at the Lewis and Clark Caverns State Park, just 17 miles from Three Forks. Tell us about the natural wonders in your state. Please share your picks in the comments section below.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/15/travel/natural-oddities/index.html	travel	Blood Falls and other natural oddities - CNN.com	2014/01/15	Wednesday Jan 15 08:17:44 EST 2014	(CNN) -- Earth never stops surprising us. Every corner of the planet offers some sort of natural peculiarity with an explanation that makes us wish we'd studied harder in junior high Earth science class. Some of these sites are challenging to get to; others are busy tourist destinations. They keep natural scientists searching for answers and the rest of us astounded by the secrets and mysteries the world continues to reveal. Blood Falls, Antarctica Most people won't see Blood Falls in person, but even in photographs, the sight is arresting: a blood-red waterfall staining the snow-white face of Taylor Glacier. The place was documented in 1911 by geographer/geologist Thomas Griffith Taylor, a member of Robert Falcon Scott's ill-fated expedition to the Antarctic. (Scott named the glacier for Taylor.) 8 very old sites in the New World Since then, glaciologists and microbiologists have sought to determine what causes the mysterious red flow. They've concluded that the source is a subterranean lake rich in the iron that gives the water its red hue. Stranger still, recent research has revealed microorganisms living 1,300 feet beneath the ice, sustained by the iron and sulfur in the water. Magnetic Hill, Moncton, New Brunswick What could possibly cause an automobile to roll backward uphill without power? A magnetic force from within the Earth? Something even more fantastic? Since the 1930s, when the phenomenon of Magnetic Hill was discovered (and almost immediately promoted as a tourist attraction), people have been trying to figure out its riddle. Even though it's been demonstrated that the "magnetic force" is an optical illusion and the uphill slope is actually a downhill slope, that hasn't stopped carloads of travelers from visiting Magnetic Hill and testing it for themselves. Digging deep: 15 ancient ruins you might not know Surtsey, Iceland When people try to convince you there's nothing new under the sun, direct them to the Icelandic island of Surtsey. Before 1963, it didn't exist. Then, an underwater volcano in the Westman Islands (Vestmannaeyjar) erupted, and when the activity settled down in 1967, what remained was an island where no island had been before. At its largest, Surtsey measured about 1 square mile, but wind and water have eroded the volcanic matter to a little more than half that size. Presented with this unsullied environment, the Icelandic government determined that the best thing to do was preserve it. Thus, although you can sail past it on a Westman Islands day cruise, Surtsey remains off-limits to just about everyone except marine biologists, geologists, botanists and other scientists conducting research there. 8 elegant U.S. mansion hotels Moeraki Boulders, New Zealand Large spherical boulders -- some measuring 12 feet in circumference -- are scattered on Koekohe Beach on the east coast of New Zealand's South Island. They formed millions of years ago on the ancient sea floor, collecting and hardening sediment and minerals around a core such as a fossil or a shell similar to the way oysters form pearls. They're not the world's only examples of what geologists call septarian concretions. You can also visit the Koutu Boulders near Hokianga Harbour on the northwestern coast of New Zealand's North Island, for example. Yet the Moeraki Boulders are some of the world's largest. The particulars of their origin and what caused the distinctive cracks inside them are still being studied. Midnight sun, Spitsbergen, Norway From April 20 to August 23, the sun never sets over Svalbard, a Norwegian archipelago that lies north of Greenland in the Arctic Sea. The phenomenon plays havoc with everyone's body clocks. Is it noon? Is it midnight? After a day or two, it's hard to tell. Among the northernmost yet still-accessible places to experience the midnight sun is Spitsbergen, the largest island in the group. The island is well-suited and accommodating to travelers, who tend to keep strange hours in summer and who soon understand why their hotel rooms have been fitted with darkening curtains. Pamukkale, Turkey What appears to be a Doctor Zhivago-style snowy landscape in southwestern Turkey is actually the result of calcium carbonate deposits from 17 natural hot springs accumulating over thousands of years. Beginning in the late second century B.C., this area near present-day Denizli was a destination for those who sought the therapeutic benefits of the mineral-rich water whose temperature reaches upward of 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Today, you can see remnants of the baths at the ancient holy city of Hierapolis, but it's the stunning terraces, cliffs and petrified white waterfalls of Pamukkale -- Turkish for "Cotton Palace" -- that give it remarkable natural beauty. Racetrack Playa, Death Valley, California How ordinary stones manage to "sail" over the surface of Racetrack Playa in Death Valley National Park is a mystery people have tried to solve since 1915, when a prospector and his wife noticed tracks that seemed to indicate that the stones had somehow traveled across the dry earth. Short of cosmic intervention, the stones required terrestrial forces to move them. But what forces? The current prevailing theory about the "sailing stones" of Racetrack Playa, presented by a team of physicists in 2011, involves ice that forms around the stones, causing them to move and to leave a trail in their wake. Many visitors still hope for a more mystical explanation. Eternal Flame Falls, Orchard Park, New York Behind the cascade of a small waterfall in the Shale Creek Preserve section of Chestnut Ridge Park in suburban Buffalo, New York, you might see what appears to be an optical illusion: a flickering golden flame. Actually, you'll smell it before you see it, and amazingly, it's real, fueled by what geologists call a macroseep of natural gas from the Earth below. A geological fault in the shale allows about 1 kilogram of methane gas per day to escape to the surface, where, at some point, possibly the early 20th century, a visitor had the idea to set it alight. The water occasionally extinguishes the flame, but there's always another hiker with a lighter to reignite it. Old Faithful, Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming Yellowstone National Park claims the highest concentration of geysers of any place on Earth. Geysers are hot springs with plumbing challenges that result in eruptions. More than 300 can be found throughout the park's 3,472 square miles, and none is more famous than Old Faithful. In fact, Old Faithful is the reason Yellowstone was designated a National Park -- the first in the United States -- in 1872. Its name comes from the perceived regularity of its eruptions, which occur every 55 to 120 minutes and last for two to five minutes. The spectacular eruptions remain a source of fascination for the more than 3.5 million people who visit Yellowstone each year. The fact that the eruptions aren't quite as regular as they might seem -- and that the mean eruption interval seems to be lengthening -- keeps geologists fascinated, too. Relampago de Catatumbo, Ologa, Venezuela Thanks to its humidity, its elevation and the clash of winds from the mountains and the sea, the southwestern corner of Lake Maracaibo in Venezuela has the world's highest frequency of lightning activity (250 flashes per square kilometer per year). More than 200 nights per year, with peaks in May and October, lightning flashes fill the sky -- sometimes 25 or more flashes per minute. To put that in perspective: The National Weather Service classifies anything over 12 strikes per minute as "excessive." Named for the Catatumbo River, which flows from Colombia in to Lake Maracaibo, the Relampago de Catatumbo, or Catatumbo Lighting, has become a highlight for travelers who spend their nights wide awake and wide-eyed watching the spectacle.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/14/travel/irpt-glorious-ireland/index.html	travel	27 photos of glorious Ireland - CNN.com	2014/03/14	Friday Mar 14 08:22:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Kevin Kane's love affair with Ireland began in 2000, when he and his then-fiancee piggybacked on a trip with his brothers and their wives. The 39-year-old financial adviser from Havertown, Pennsylvania, has been back six times since, taking his now wife, brothers and mother on various trips that spanned nearly every county in Ireland and Northern Ireland. Ahead of St. Patrick's Day, Kane and other CNN readers shared their best memories and photos from mesmerizing visits to the Emerald Isle. The green and rugged Dingle Peninsula, in the southwest of Ireland, is Kane's favorite destination, he wrote, though "the Glens of Antrim are spectacular in November, the Ring of Kerry cannot be described adequately by James Joyce himself on a clear day in June, and the vibrancy of Galway and Westport are enough to recharge the soul as you wander joyfully from Tobercurry to Ennis." Kane offered a few tips for the first-time visitor: Don't be overly ambitious on your first trip. "Pick a few towns to stay in and do several days in each. One-hundred miles between towns is not a two-hour drive as you might expect. If there are no major motorways, it could easily become a harrowing four-hour trip for the novice European driver." Talk to the locals in pubs. "Ask questions, don't fake a brogue, and listen to the suggestions they are sure to make about what to see in that immediate area. The Irish are fiercely parochial and love to show off their town's hidden secrets to tourists." Do something off the beaten path. "Take a ferry out to an island to walk around a bit, find an Abbey ruin in a field to explore, take a flask of Jameson and hike up a mountain. Get lost in what Ireland is, and has to offer." In summary, Kane said: "Keep your itinerary reasonable, soak up every minute you are there, and make notes for your next trip, for you will surely be returning. It's that kind of place." 29 beach photos that will make you drool 11 ways to make the most of Hawaii What are your Ireland travel tips? 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/20/travel/ireport-beaches/index.html	travel	Beach photos that'll make you drool - CNN.com	2014/02/20	Thursday Feb 20 08:25:36 EST 2014	(CNN) -- They're almost unbelievable. Impossible blues, electric greens, depths as clear as glass -- all bathed in blinding sunshine. But that's why we like snapshots of beaches: someone lived that saturated fantasy, giving cubicle dwellers hope. Most of these locales are sizzling right now, and they're all primed for a daydream visit. Got a great beach photo to share? Submit it at iReport.com. 22 can't-miss U.S. beaches Travel photos we wish we'd taken  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/08/travel/robb-report-luxury-travel-2013/index.html	travel	8 getaways we wish we could afford - CNN.com	2013/01/08	Tuesday Jan 8 08:12:51 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Imagine kicking back on a private island in the Bahamas where the staff caters to your every whim. Yes, it's a pipe dream for 99% of us, but let's imagine. Put that bank balance out of your mind. Now conjure up a snorkel and flippers. To find some of the most out-of-this-world destinations for jet-setters in 2013, CNN.com asked Robb Report editorial director Bruce Wallin for ideas. So keep this list handy in case of a fat financial windfall: Singita Grumeti Reserves, Tanzania  Located on a private 350,000-acre game reserve, the Singita Grumeti Reserves has only four small lodges on the property. The four-bedroom Serengeti House, which is listed on its blog, quietly opened to guests in December and includes its own chef, guides, tennis court and pool. "The lodges themselves are as nice as Four Seasons New York, if not nicer," says Wallin. "The wildlife is great, and the service and food is incredible. It's one of the nicest places in the world to stay." Serengeti House rates start at $8,500 a night for up to four guests during high season (parts of December and January and all of June, July and August), with additional charges for five to eight guests. Pay $84,500 to rent the house for a week for up to eight guests. Song Saa Private Island, Cambodia The dream of an Australian couple living in Cambodia, the exclusive Song Saa Private Island resort opened in March. With just 27 villas on two small islands in the Koh Rong archipelago, the resort offers diving, snorkeling, nature trails, kayaking, fishing and boat trips to surrounding islands. Song Saa also has a relationship with the Amansara resort in Siem Reap, allowing travelers to stay there while visiting Angkor Wat's ancient temples. High-season villa prices starts at $1,595 a night for the one-bedroom Jungle Villa. Rates include food, beverages including beer and house wines and spirits, guided tours and the use of kayaks, boats and snorkeling gear. Four Seasons Around the World Imagine jetting around the world via private 757 airplane, visiting some of the world's most extraordinary sites with travel experts and staying at Four Seasons hotels at your destinations. Customs is a breeze for such world travelers. Four Seasons featured two around-the-world trips in 2012, each 22 days long, and is already taking reservations for next September's trip. The 2013 journey includes stops in Japan, China, the Maldives, Turkey and Russia. Only 76 spots are available. Double occupancy costs $70,950 a person, and the single supplement is an extra $8,650. Musha Cay and the Islands of Copperfield Bay, Bahamas Want a vacation for up to 24 family members or best friends that goes beyond luxury? Consider Musha Cay and the Islands of Copperfield Bay, owned and developed into a beach resort in the Exumas by world-famous magician David Copperfield. You and your guests can take part in a treasure hunt, spy challenge or other theatrical adventures designed by the team behind Copperfield's magic shows. Of course, the resort also has beaches, a swimming pool, tennis court, outdoor movie theater and nature trails. Rent out the whole resort, which consists of five houses on the main island. Rates start at $37,500 a night for up to 12 guests with a four-night minimum, including all meals and beverages. The resort can host up to 24 guests for an additional fee. King Pacific Lodge, Northern British Columbia, Canada Accessible via privately chartered plane from Vancouver to Bella Bella with a transfer to float planes for the final leg, King Pacific Lodge is in the middle of British Columbia's Great Bear Rainforest. The lodge actually floats: Built from cedar, fir, pine and stone on a barge, King Pacific is only open June through September. It has 17 guest rooms and suites, a spa, deck and pool. Prices start at $4,900 (Canadian) based on double occupancy for three nights and include all meals, beverages and use of the lodge facilities. The Great Bear Rainforest, home to the Gitga'at people (part of the Tsimshian Nation), is host to many nature activities, including kayaking, fishing, whale watching and wildlife watching. Dorado Beach, a Ritz-Carlton Reserve, Puerto Rico The Dorado Beach, a Ritz-Carlton Reserve, isn't a newcomer to Puerto Rico. The resort, which opened is doors on December 12, is on the site of Laurance Rockefeller's former estate near San Juan. The property continued his environmental legacy by setting aside some 75% of its 1,400 acres as green space. All 100 guestrooms and 14 one-bedroom suites are on the beach. "Su Casa," a restored four-bedroom beachfront villa, was the original hacienda. Restaurant and beachfront dining feature the talents of acclaimed chef Jose Andres. The spa offers a tree-house option for massages. Rates start at $1,499 a night based on double occupancy. Ballyfin, Ireland Sitting at the foot of the Slieve Bloom Mountains in the Irish countryside, Ballyfin was named in the Robb Report's "Best of the Best 2012." Originally the home of Sir Charles Coote, the Regency mansion reopened as Ballyfin in May 2011 with 15 guest rooms. Built in 1822 for Coote's family, the 614-acre estate was later sold and served as a Catholic school. Purchased by a Chicago businessman in 2002, it underwent a nine-year renovation that upgraded the technology while keeping the Old World elegance and charm. The resort is closed in January and February (reservations can still be made during that time), and it reopens for the season on March 8. Daily weekend rates for March and April, including meals and amenities, start at 915 euros ($1,206 U.S.) a night for a deluxe room, based on double occupancy. Aspen, Colorado  The recent reopening of the Hotel Jerome, one of the oldest U.S. luxury hotels west of the Mississippi, is just one of the reasons why Aspen is a top U.S. spot for high-end travel, says Wallin. Even without the renovation, Aspen was already a magnet for the rich and famous. St. Regis Aspen reopened in December 2011 after a $40 million redesign. And the five-star lodge Little Nell just opened Element 47, which Wallin says may be the best restaurant in town. "Aspen has long been the country's most glamorous ski destination, so it's hard to say it's undergoing a revival -- it never really waned in popularity in the first place," says Wallin, "But with all the new restaurants, renewed hotels and other developments in the area, Aspen is probably the best it's ever been as a luxury destination. " At the St. Regis Aspen, the winter season starting rate for a standard guest room, based on double occupancy, is $899 a night. Hotel Jerome's winter season rates start at $695 a night based on double occupancy.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/14/travel/penguin-viewing/index.html	travel	5 stunning places to see penguins - CNN.com	2013/01/14	Monday Jan 14 01:22:52 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Hankering to see some happy feet? Antarctica is far from your only option. From the windswept beaches of Tierra del Fuego at South America's tip to sunny Cape Town, South Africa, and Melbourne, Australia, penguin colonies exist in many strikingly beautiful destinations in the Southern Hemisphere. There's no denying it: Penguins are among the most charismatic creatures. Their notorious curiosity, waddling gait and comical body language seldom fail to charm. But these flightless sea birds have evolved over 15 million years to become strong, nimble swimmers that often migrate long distances in pursuit of fish following seasonal ocean currents. 7 prime spots for wildlife viewing Today, most of the 18 species of penguins are in decline because of climate change, habitat destruction, pollution and overfishing -- in fact, more than half are considered endangered. You can support their survival by visiting carefully managed colonies where tour operators respect penguin habitat and educate visitors about conservation efforts. November through March -- when it's the warmest in the Southern Hemisphere -- is prime time for viewing many penguin species. During the warm season, they spend more time on shore to breed, nest and raise their young. Check out these amazing penguin spots: Tierra del Fuego (Argentina and Chile) Ushuaia, Argentina, the southernmost city in the world, boasts several tour operators offering day cruises to view penguins and other marine life. But only one, PiraTour, gives visitors the chance to walk among the penguins. PiraTour runs two six-hour tours daily from the port of Ushuaia. Tours are limited to 20 people, so be sure to make reservations well in advance. A 90-minute minivan ride takes visitors through Patagonian forests and along secluded pebbly coves before arriving at Estancia Harberton, a charming family-owned farm and marine center. From there, visitors transfer to a boat for a short ride to Isla Martillo, a research station that monitors the 3,000 pairs of Magellanic penguins and a small colony of gentoo penguins that nest here between September and April. Visitors will spend up to an hour observing the very vocal Magellanic penguins, which bellow and strut along the beach by the hundreds. The tour guide will instruct you to maintain a safe distance from the birds, but be prepared for them to approach you as penguins can be extremely curious. After a few minutes on the beach, you'll be led up a bluff to see their nesting ground, where the birds often return to the same mate and same nest year after year. Back at Estancia Harberton, you'll have time to grab a hot drink at the tea room or explore the farm's on-site marine research center. There is also a guest house and camp sites; contact Harberton directly if you want to extend your visit to this peaceful haven. Otherwise, Ushuaia offers a wide range of accommodation options, from backpacker hostels to luxury hotels perched on glacial mountainsides overlooking the city. PiraTour, U.S. $95 for a six-hour tour (50% discount for children under 12), plus $13 entry fee to Estancia Harberton  Phillip Island, Australia Since the 1920s, tourists have flocked to Phillip Island to witness the smallest penguin species, known as little penguins or fairy penguins, return to shore each evening to feed their young after a long day of fishing. Only 12 inches tall and weighing less than 3 pounds, the little penguin is found only in Australia and New Zealand. For decades, the penguins on Phillip Island were largely unprotected from the throngs of sightseers, but today most visitors observe the evening penguin "parade" from elevated boardwalks and viewing platforms to minimize disturbances to the birds. For those who want a more up-close-and-personal experience, a limited number of tickets are available each day for small group, ranger-guided tours where you can walk among penguins on a secluded beach. The ticket price helps support conservation work on the island, including habitat restoration and research focusing on how penguins are affected by climate change, development and invasive species. Phillip Island is a 90-minute drive from Melbourne, but plan on spending at least a couple of days here to enjoy all its wildlife, including koalas, wallabies, elusive anteaters, seals and whales. Phillip Island Nature Park, prices start at U.S. $23 for evening viewing from a platform, $46 for close-up viewing and $82.50 for a private, ranger-guided ecoadventure in a part of the penguin colony that's closed to the general public. Cape Town, South Africa The southern tip of Africa offers numerous opportunities to view the African penguin, previously known as the jackass penguin because of its distinctive donkey-like bray. African penguins have declined by 80% in the past 50 years because of pollution, development, climate change and irresponsible tourism activities. The Boulders Beach colony, about 24 miles from Cape Town, was only established in 1983, but it's now an important habitat for the endangered bird. As its name suggests, the beach is strewn with granite boulders, which create an impressive backdrop for photographing the penguins. Today, boardwalk viewing areas help protect the birds from excessive human contact, although you may encounter penguins while swimming and should take care not to approach them if possible. A ride on the wild side in Tanzania Boulders Beach is part of Table Mountain National Park, situated at the convergence of the Atlantic and Indian oceans on the Cape of Good Hope. Hiking, mountain biking, wind sailing and wildlife viewing are just a few of the activities here that offer impressive views of Cape Town and the surrounding countryside. The nearby village of Simon's Town, with its historic cottages and cobblestone streets, provides numerous accommodation and dining options. Table Mountain National Park, visitors to the park pay a daily conservation fee of U.S. $5.30 per adult and $2.50 per child. Otago Peninsula, New Zealand Even in a country known for its dramatic scenery and amazing wildlife, the Otago Peninsula stands out. Located on New Zealand's South Island, the peninsula was born of volcanic eruptions that created steep mountains and rugged sea cliffs. It's a hot spot for marine wildlife viewing -- seals, sea lions, elephant seals and, of course, penguins. Here it's possible to see both the little penguin and the rare yellow-eyed penguin. A number of tour operators on the peninsula are committed to environmental education and sustainable ecotourism. Nature Guides Otago offers naturalist-led tours as well as lodging that emphasize sustainability and support penguin habitat restoration and conservation. Another option is Penguin Place, a conservation reserve on a private farm. Visitors begin the tour by learning about penguin conservation efforts before proceeding to a series of trenches and observation huts. From these vantage points, they are treated to up-close views of a yellow-eyed penguin colony while minimizing disturbances to the birds, which live in coastal forests and have suffered significant habitat loss from logging. Nature Guides Otago, a sunrise tour of a yellow-eyed penguin colony, maximum six people, runs U.S. $75 per person. Nature packages, which include two nights at a B&B cottage, sunrise penguin tour and a daylong tour of the Otago Peninsula, run $540 per person. Note that tour priority is given to those staying at the cottage. Penguin Place, penguin tours run throughout the day. Price is U.S. $41 for adults and $10 for children. Budget accommodations are available at the Penguin Place Lodge for U.S. $22 adults, $8.50 children Galapagos Islands, Ecuador  It comes as a surprise to most travelers that a trip to the Galapagos could include the chance to see penguins. But in fact, the islands are home to the only penguin that lives in a tropical climate. Unlike other species that migrate according to the season, endangered Galapagos penguins live here year-round, especially in the colder waters of the western islands such as Isla Isabela. Almost any tour of the Galapagos includes the chance to see an incredible variety of wildlife, but some operators specifically offer penguin tours. More likely than not you'll be observing the birds from a boat, but if the tour includes snorkeling in an area frequented by penguins, there's a chance that you could end up swimming with the birds. Southern Exploration, a member of the International Ecotourism Society, is one tour operator that offers the chance to see penguins at close range. However, since the Galapagos National Park Service restricts tourists to specific areas and may limit access depending on conditions, it's best to contact tour operators directly to confirm that you'll be able to see penguins on your trip. Talk through the options carefully with the booking agent to make sure your expectations will be met. Southern Explorations, four to 15-day Galapagos cruising tours with an English-speaking guide, start at around U.S. $3,000 up to about $6,000, including the flight from Quito to the Galapagos. Ask to speak to a Galapagos expert and tell them you are interested in seeing penguins so they can find an appropriate tour during your travel dates. Avoid holiday travel unless you book a year or more in advance -- tours around Christmas and Easter fill up fast.   
http://www.cnn.com/2012/08/13/travel/otherworldly-landscapes-gallery/index.html	travel	Earth's otherworldly landscapes - CNN.com	2012/08/13	Monday Aug 13 07:55:47 EDT 2012	(CNN) -- We can't visit Mars (yet), but our own planet's unique terrain presents plenty of landscapes with an out-of-this-world feel. Here, iReporters share some of their otherworldly experiences and photos, which cover a lot of ground on Earth. Share your travel photos with CNN iReport.  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/08/17/travel/snapshots-nice-france/index.html	travel	Striking shots of Nice, France - CNN.com	2012/08/17	Friday Aug 17 01:18:38 EDT 2012	(CNN) -- The Mediterranean city of Nice, France, draws celebrities and tourists from all over the world -- for good reason. Check out iReporters' snapshots above to see why and get some ideas for your trip. Related story: Live it up on the French Riviera  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/08/27/travel/your-summer-vacation-snapshots/index.html	travel	What you did on your summer vacation - CNN.com	2012/08/27	Monday Aug 27 01:08:31 EDT 2012	(CNN) -- We can't take every summer vacation we'd like to take, but CNN iReporters can certainly take us to some of those places. Here, iReporters share some of their summer travels and photos, which cover a lot of terrain.  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/27/travel/virgin-islands-travel-snapshots/index.html	travel	Paradise in the Virgin Islands - CNN.com	2012/01/27	Friday Jan 27 05:20:24 EST 2012	 
http://www.cnn.com/2012/02/10/travel/paris-travel-snapshots/index.html	travel	City of Light -- and love - CNN.com	2012/02/10	Friday Feb 10 04:22:30 EST 2012	 
http://www.cnn.com/2012/10/19/travel/autumn-irpt/index.html	travel	Autumn color around the world - CNN.com	2012/10/19	Friday Oct 19 09:26:39 EDT 2012	(CNN) -- Mark Collier grew up in the mountains of Vermont. Every autumn, he would see an influx of tourists flood his state to get a glimpse of the brilliant fall leaves. He didn't get what the big deal was. "Why do people come to look at the trees?" he wondered. But as he got older, he developed an interest in photography. And that made him stop taking the vibrant autumn color for granted. Great leaf-peeping experiences "I suddenly began to notice the stunning colors that seemed to blanket the hills in fire each fall as the days got shorter and the nights became colder," he remembers. "Slowly but surely, as I gained experience and insight, I began to really understand what a special place Vermont is, and I began to fall in love with my home and the stunning colors." Collier is now a staff photographer for the Barre-Montpelier Times Argus. This year, he decided for the first time to document the fall beauty of his state. He shared his images alongside dozens of other photographers on CNN iReport. The best of his shots, along with other images of autumn around the world, are in the gallery above. Hit the trail: 7 gorgeous hikes  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/02/03/travel/london-travel-snapshots/index.html	travel	Landmarks of London - CNN.com	2012/02/03	Friday Feb 3 10:21:37 EST 2012	 
http://www.cnn.com/2011/10/07/travel/destination-adventure-morocco/index.html	travel	Wonders of Morocco - CNN.com	2011/10/07	Friday Oct 7 03:08:31 EDT 2011	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/travel/dream-concept-cars-museum-exhibit/index.html	travel	Art museum features designer cars that offer insight on car culture. - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 08:05:54 EDT 2014	Atlanta, Georgia (CNN) -- Italy has David, Paris has the Mona Lisa and now, Atlanta has the Firebird I XP-21. Don't laugh gallery snobs and car-haters: The automobile has vaulted from the streets to the lofty art world. Even if automobiles aren't your thing, the Firebird's bizarre wings and bubble cockpit are worth a peek. It's among 17 "concept cars" on exhibit at Atlanta, Georgia's High Museum of Art. Many of these are one-of-a-kind. When you first walk into the exhibit, it's clear these cars aren't designed for mere mortals. Every car has a price, and these are worth millions. But in reality, the unique nature of this collection makes them priceless in a growing market. Collectible car sales last year in the U.S. topped $1 billion. Money aside, this exhibit really exemplifies America's long and fiery hot love affair with cars. These rolling masterpieces were never intended to be mass produced. They were meant to be romanced, idolized, even worshipped. Concept cars are marketing tools designed to trigger buzz and spur sales. You can be sure the Da Vinci of General Motors -- legendary designer Harley Earl -- put just as much imagination into his jet-plane-looking Firebird as old Leonardo did with that smirking Mona. "These have got to be some of the world's craziest, beautiful cars," a visitor says to me with a grin as big as the grill-work on a stunning '51 GM LeSabre XP-8 sitting a few feet away. Beautiful, yes. Crazy? VERY. A few examples: -- Not a clown car: The 1970 Lancia Stratos HF Zero measures only 33 inches from its rooftop to the floor. -- Electric Egg: A tiny electric-powered, plastic, bubble-on-wheels was created in Nazi-occupied Paris in 1942. -- Fabric exterior: A 2001 BMW Gina wrinkles when you open its doors. See photos of these sweet cars Parked against a wall in another exhibit room sits a green replica 1935 Bugatti Type 57S. Steampunk fans will dig this elegant machine. It looks like something out of Disney's "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea." "You can fetishize just about any detail on the Bugatti you like, from the grill to every bolt," a man standing nearby says to me. This guy gets it! We're like kids in a candy store -- but nobody's letting us have any candy. Instead we're hypnotized by the cars and their dramatic, sweeping lines and their chrome-spangled cockpits. Related: Gorgeous art cars auctioned Days of future past These vehicles were designed to look like the future. Take for example the '59 Cadillac Cyclone XP-74. It stops you cold. The thing looks like a silver rocket from a 1950s B movie. And it has futuristic safety features too. A radar-based anti-collision system is tucked inside the Caddy's cone-shaped so-called "dagmar" headlights. Two of the exhibit's creators -- Ken Gross and Sarah Schleuning -- showed me around a little. "In the past, the future was really cool," joked Gross, who's also been Playboy Magazine's car writer for more than 25 years. Gross, the exhibit's consulting curator, says these vehicles were imagined and built by designers with one goal: to get attention. Harley Earl's been dead for 45 years and and he's still turning heads. That's called being way ahead of your time. As Gross puts it: "Car designers are the rock stars of the automobile industry and they always have been." When it came to car design, Earl pushed the industry to put style as a top priority, says Schleuning, the museum's curator of decorative arts and design. "It wasn't just about the cars' technological marvels, but also about their aesthetic appeal." Related: Teeny cars worth big bucks The rolling rocket The rule breaker -- the bad boy of this bunch -- Gross says, is the Firebird. This rolling rocket gets its own chamber in the exhibit. And it's no wonder. -- It's the first two-section gas turbine powered car to be built and tested in the U.S. -- It's one of the first cars with four-wheel disc brakes. -- Its body is made mostly of expensive and super strong titanium.  In 1954 GM toted the Firebird around the country as part of a traveling car show called the Motorama. The car "was so fast they only had one or two engineers who drove it at the proving grounds," Gross says. "They used Mauri Rose, who was an Indy 500 winner, to test it -- and even he never took it to its full potential." It's been suggested that America's century-long obsession with driving may die with the aging Baby Boomer generation. Some experts say that Millennials now in their 20s and 30s have little interest in owning cars, although sales among that group shot up in 2012. Are we falling out of love with our cars? The Atlanta museum is by no means the first to celebrate automobile design. Back in 1951, New York's Museum of Modern Art opened an exhibit featuring eight cars described as elegant and exotic. More recently, Gross says, the idea has become a national trend, taking hold in places like Nashville, Tennessee, and Raleigh, North Carolina. Maybe increased interest within America's art community will stoke the fire, and keep the romance burning a little longer.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/travel/survivor-jeff-probst-favorite-travel/index.html	travel	'Survivor' top 10: Jeff Probst's favorite travel spots - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 08:13:30 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Jeff Probst was a bit of a travel late bloomer, but the "Survivor" host has more than made up for lost time. Born and raised in Wichita, Kansas, "I was never a foreign exchange student and didn't even have a passport until 'Survivor,' " says Probst, 52. The show has been "a life-changing experience." Since the competitive reality series debuted on CBS in 2000, the Emmy-winning host and executive producer hasn't stopped traveling all over the world. "I've been underwater at 60 feet with a shark and found myself sitting out in an Africa game reserve with zebras running past me," says Probst. "I really began to understand simultaneously how unique I am and how I'm one grain of sand in this giant beach we live on. It really did help shape me." The 28th "Survivor" season finale airs live on Wednesday, May 21. The cast and crew work hard, shooting two seasons of the CBS series over 78 days of the 95 days they're on location. Anytime there's a break, "we play hard," says Probst. And where they get to play is pretty spectacular. Probst shared his top 10 favorite spots in the world with CNN, some of which are places the show took him. Others may surprise you. 1. Palau  Anytime he had a break during shooting "Survivor" seasons 10 and 16 on Palau, an island nation in the western Pacific Ocean, Probst headed to the water to scuba dive. "Of all the places we traveled, if you're into ocean and scuba diving or just snorkeling, it's one of the greatest spots in the world," he says. Blue Corner, a popular (and advanced) diving spot where you can descend at least 20 feet and clip onto a rock, is a favorite dive. "You don't go anywhere," he says. "The entire sea world goes past you, and it's the most amazing aquarium in the world." Another favorite spot is Jellyfish Lake, the home of hundreds of thousands of jellyfish that have lost the need to sting because they don't have to fight predators. "You're swimming with these jellyfish, and it's like being on a psychedelic trip," he says. 2. Kenya Stargazing and waking up to wildlife outside his tent at the Shaba National Reserve in Kenya were two of Probst's favorite memories of season three. "You've never seen stars like you see in Africa," he says. "There's no ambient light ... when you really see what's up there, it's mind-blowing." He'd head back into his tent to sleep. Come morning, he would open his tent zipper one click at a time. "You didn't want to scare off the wildlife that you hoped was waiting outside your tent. It was not uncommon to find zebra and giraffes." "A lion chased a zebra through our protective fence into camp and killed the zebra, and two other lions came to help with the kill," he says. 3. Cook Islands  Looking for a remote desert island? "Survivor" location scouts found a perfect spot in the Cook Islands in the South Pacific for season 13. The Polynesian culture of the islands celebrates the sea and offers a relaxed way of life. Known especially for coral reef lagoons, kayaking and beaches, the islands also offered Probst and the crew a chance to know the locals. "The majority of our crew lived with local families. You could eat (at work) or you could eat with them." Probst picked up a bit of the relaxed local attitude. "You can't help but be impacted by a different lifestyle. You do realize there are lots of ways to live." World's best new skyscraper is ... 4. Kona, Hawaii  Formerly a retreat for Hawaiian royalty, Kona is now the Probst family's vacation spot during spring break. That's because Probst married Lisa Russell, who had two children from a previous marriage, in 2011. They all often head to Kona when the children, Michael, 10, and Ava, 7, are on spring break. "There's something about Kona," he says. "I feel so at home and grounded and connected to the earth (there). I love the weather and the water. It's so peaceful. Lisa and I have talked about if we ever lived somewhere else, this would be the place." 5. Amazon, Brazil Every season in the Amazon, it rains so much that the water levels rise and drop by 40 feet in a matter of weeks, says Probst. The season six crew stayed at the Ariau Amazon Towers, a hotel built on stilts. When they arrived, there was no water around the hotel. During the shoot, it rained so much they ended up surrounded by water, by design. Probst says the Amazon is the spookiest place he has been, and not just because of his childhood fear of crocodiles. "There are more insects and snakes and weird animals--I didn't know what they werethan I've ever seen before. And there are piranha in the water." And those crocodiles? Traveling to the Tribal Council -- the ceremony where players are eliminated -- required traveling down a river in a skinny, motor-equipped canoe. "We would take these canoes, and I'd shine a flashlight on the shore and see pairs of red (crocodile) eyes dotting it," he says. "I'd be almost petrified the canoe would tip over." Don't worry about him, though. "I like being out of my comfort zone," he says. "I don't know that I would ever visit again, but it's on the kids' bucket list." That means he'll probably be back. 6. Australian outback  "Survivor" season two took the cast and crew into the outback, where Probst often woke to a family of kangaroos outside his tent. "We think of them as friendly, but know they are lethal and massive," he says. "One could literally kill me with one kick to my head while yawning." Absorbing a bit of Australian culture, Probst also returned home to Los Angeles worrying less about everything. "Australians have a different way of living: 'No worries' comes from a place of truth. They don't worry nearly as much about things as we do." "It's had the greatest impact on my life, how I raise my kids and how the show works," he says. "Anyone who has hung out in Australia knows what I mean. Of course I care and am competitive, but I am also going to do it while tossing back a beer." Weirdest rock formations around the United States 7. Vail, Colorado Growing up in Kansas, Probst's family piled into the family station wagon for an annual ski vacation in Vail, Colorado. There's something about the Rockies that's completely familiar to him, down to the expressions on his parents' faces as they waited in line to rent skis. "Our parents did that trip every year, and I can remember my dad telling me years later that family adventures and vacations are a lot of work ... but they are never not worth it," Probst says. "I can remember all the times we loaded up in our station wagon to drive through the snow-covered mountains so we could have family vacations." 8. El Toro Bay, Samoa When Probst performed his parents' vow renewal ceremony for their 50th anniversary in Samoa in 2009, he had no idea he'd be returning for a similarly important event two years later. That's when he flew Lisa and her children to Samoa, where he was shooting season 19. When they arrived at El Toro Bay, he took Michael and Ava aside to let them know he was asking their mother to marry him and to ask for their help. The children quickly changed clothes and helped to lead her to Probst, who proposed. They married four months later. 9. Venice, California While Probst spends a good amount of time traveling, he also very much appreciates what's available in his own backyard of Los Angeles, especially the beaches. "There's such a fun vibe on the (Venice) boardwalk with some great people-watching," he says. "All kinds of people show up: businessmen, surfers, moms, kids, all creating a crazy rhythm. The rings in Venice are a great little escape ... I just chalk up and swing away." 10. Around the world  You'd think Probst and his family would be tired of him traveling when he gets home from shooting halfway around the world. You'd be wrong. Standing in front of the 10-foot by 6-foot map in their hallway, with pushpins marking where everyone has been, the family keeps talking about taking a month to go around the world. Where would they stop? For sure, Rome, London and Switzerland. The rest of the trip is still up in the air. While he knows there's plenty he hasn't yet explored at home, "the other view is we have just one shot, and let's say by plane, by train, by bus, by car, by scooter, by skateboard, we're going to experience the world," he says. "Do we learn something we want to bring back home? Or did we find we are perfectly happy with the way things are?" Where do you think Jeff Probst and the cast and crew of "Survivor" should go next season? Share your thoughts in the comments below.   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/14/travel/best-water-slides/index.html	travel	World's scariest, best water slides - CNN.com	2014/05/14	Wednesday May 14 11:16:18 EDT 2014	 --> adType:mmst  (CNN) -- Verrckt will become the world's tallest water slide -- it's taller than both the Statue of Liberty and Niagara Falls -- when it opens in May in Kansas. Until then, here are some of the world's best water slides and features that make each one unique. Verruckt, Schlitterbahn Waterpark (Kansas) Although the team behind Verrckt refuse to confirm its exact measurements, they've promised that it'll be the world's tallest when it opens later this month. The ride will feature a steep downhill section followed by an uphill section. Riders will sit in four-person rafts. "Verruckt is the brainchild of Jeff Henry, the water park innovator who invented uphill water coasters and inland surfing," says Winter Prosapio of Schlitterbahn Waterpark. "What sets Verruckt apart is not just the height, but the technology needed to make it work. "The uphill portion required a new nozzle-based technology that can sense the weight of each raft and adjusts the water blast to send riders over the hill." That means overdoing it on the hot dogs and cotton candy won't be a problem for the ride. For your stomach, it might be a different story. Schlitterbahn Waterpark, 9400 State Ave., Kansas City, Kansas; +1 913 312 3110 MORE: 12 of the world's best water parks Mammoth, Holiday World & Splashin' Safari (Indiana) Mammoth is both the world's longest water coaster and the world's first six-person water coaster. It covers over three acres of the Splashin' Safari park and has a length of just less than a third of a mile. "It's powered with LIMs (linear induction motors), which is the same technology used for roller coasters and light rail transportation," explains Ruth McMahon, director at ProSlide Technology Inc. "These specially adapted LIMs are responsible for the Mammoth's incredibly fast and steep uphill and downhill sections." Holiday World & Splashin' Safari, 452 E. Christmas Blvd., Santa Claus, Indiana; +1 812 937 4401 Aqualoop, Ixtapan Parque Acuatico (Mexico) The Aqualoop is one of the few water slides to feature an almost-vertical loop-the-loop. Riders start by standing on a trapdoor. The drop that follows allows them to gain enough speed -- up to 60 kilometers an hour -- to make it around the loop. "With the unique slide path, we had to optimize the shape of the loop to maximize the range of riders that could use it while making sure no one got stuck," says Bruce Bradley, senior engineering specialist at Whitewater theme park designers. Considering the transparency of the slide, that could certainly prove to be embarrassing. The park is located about 90 minutes by highway (106 kilometers) southwest of Mexico City. Ixtapan Parque Acuatico, Plaza San Gaspar S/N, Barrio San Gaspar, Ixtapan de la Sal, Estado de Mxico, Mexico; +52 55 5540 0500 MORE: World's largest Legoland Water Park opens The Abyss, Bali Water Park (China) Although funnel-type slides are increasingly popular, The Abyss' 29-meter-high, near-vertical oscillations and final, enormous bowl make it one of the world's most exciting water park attractions. "By strategically adding flat panels to three sides of the funnel, the passengers in the rafts rise higher up the side walls -- 25% more than they would otherwise -- making the Abyss more thrilling than the standard cone-shape slides," explains Tat Won, senior landscape architect at Whitewater, the company that designed the slide. The park is located in Fushun in Liaoning Province, about 665 kilometers northeast of Beijing. Bali Water Park, Re-gao Amusement Park, Fushun, Liaoning Province, China Aquaconda, Aquaventure Waterpark (Dubai, United Arab Emirates) The Aquaconda is the world's first slide-within-a-slide, comprising an enclosed tube slide that weaves in and out of the framework of a flume-style ride. It's made from translucent plastic, so passengers on one section can watch those whizzing down the other. "Before translucent technology, enclosed water slides were dark, almost industrial looking," says Geoff Chutter, chief executive of Whitewater. "Transparent fiberglass lets in more light and creates beautiful prismatic effects, while also putting on a great show for both spectators and people waiting in line." Aquaventure Waterpark, Atlantis The Palm, Crescent Road, Palm Island, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; +971 4 426 0000 MORE: Dino Beach water park: The beach is a fake, but the fun is real  Behemoth Bowl, Chimelong Water Park (Guangzhou, China)  Speak to a water slide geek and they'll tell you how the Behemoth Bowl revolutionized water slides with its water injection system, patented corkscrew exit and central drop chute. Our opinion? We just love the thrills. "This is the largest bowl water ride in the world, with a massive 18-meter-diameter," explains Ruth McMahon at theme park designers ProSlide Technology Inc. "The size and shape allow passengers to speed around the perimeter and make multiple revolutions with maximum centrifugal force." Chimelong Water Park, Panyu Da Dao, Guangzhou, China; +86 20 8479 2222 Dawwama, Yas Waterworld Abu Dhabi (Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates) Dawwama was the winner of 2013's Best Water Ride award at the IAAPA (International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions) awards. The highlight of the six-person raft ride is an enormous 20-meter-high funnel. "It's unique because it combines two iconic water rides," adds Ruth McMahon at ProSlide Technology Inc. "After the first section -- a fast and steep LIM-powered water coaster -- passengers get dropped into the world's first six-person funnel ride." Yas Waterworld Abu Dhabi, Yas Island, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; +971 2 414 2000 MORE: Tokyo's top 5 water parks  King Cobra, Maxx Royal Belek Golf & Spa (Belek, Turkey) Maxx Royal Resort in Turkey is one of the few places you can whiz along the body of a cobra before sliding up the inside of its mouth -- at 51 kilometers per hour. "It's regarded as a game-changing waterslide,"says Sohret Pakis of Polin Waterparks & Pool Systems. "It's a high-capacity ride with two double tubes, and it's interactive, because the passengers race each other. "It has a strong visual impact and a unique spectator appeal, with integrated special effects, such as hissing sounds." Maxx Royal Belek Golf & Spa, Iskele Mevkii, Belek, Turkey; +90 242 444 62 99 Super S Ride, Vivaldi Park Ocean World (Hong-cheon, South Korea) Python is one of the world's scariest water slides, thanks to several banked twists and turns, unbelievably tight corners and a six-meter-wide enclosed section that sends riders flying up the sides. "We maximized wall height while eliminating turnover risk," says Bruce Bradley at Whitewater. "We wanted to design a slide that gives passengers the thrilling feeling that they're going to flip over when they fly high up on the slide walls, but obviously they don't!" Vivaldi Park Ocean World, 1290-14 Palbongri, Seomyeon, Hong-cheon, Gangwon Province, South Korea; +82 43 420 8311 MORE: World's first Cartoon Network water park to open in Thailand  Tamara Hinson is a freelance journalist based in the UK.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/02/travel/cities-of-destruction/index.html	travel	7 fascinating cities of destruction - CNN.com	2014/05/02	Friday May 2 08:24:22 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The world tends to celebrate the ingenuity and strength of great civilizations that have flourished by successfully subduing nature. But every bit as fascinating are the stories of once-great civilizations forced to submit to nature's capricious power. Here are seven ancient cities -- almost all UNESCO World Heritage sites -- that tell of triumph and failure in the face of dramatic conditions. Perhaps they also offer a cautionary tale for the modern world: No matter how advanced the civilization, we are often no match for nature. World Photo award winners are ... Pompeii, Italy Sixteen years before Mount Vesuvius enveloped Pompeii in a deadly shroud of ash and noxious gas, a powerful earthquake shook the Roman city, destroying buildings and killing hundreds. But the industrious people of Pompeii quickly set about repairing the damage, restoring their beautiful city to its former splendor. Little did they imagine that something far more destructive was in store. Then, on the morning of August 24, A.D. 79, Vesuvius exploded spectacularly, sending successive, choking waves of thick ash, hot rock and volcanic gas over the town throughout the day and night. Those who did not flee in time were suffocated, baked and buried in ash several feet thick. Today, the ancient city of Pompeii offers a detailed picture of life in a prosperous Roman town 2,000 years ago. Visitors can see a fascinating array of artifacts: intact rooms and furnishings, finely wrought bronze statues and haunting, well-preserved paintings and mosaics depicting people so full of vitality that one can't help but feel an affinity for those whose lives ended in such agony. Detailed plaster casts of victims can still be viewed, an eerie reminder of those lives cut short. Alas, ancient Pompeii is threatened again -- this time by an excess of visitors and a succession of floods in recent years that have done extensive damage to some of its most famous sites, some of which have now been closed to the public. For further inspiration in planning your visit, you might go see "Pompeii," a new 3-D movie depicting the city's final hours. www.pompeiturismo.it. 15 ancient ruins you might not know Tiwanaku, Bolivia More than 12,500 feet in the Bolivian Andes near the shore of Lake Titicaca, this mysterious, pre-Incan city was once the religious and political center of the Tiwanaku culture, which ruled a vast Andean empire. Archaeologists generally place its origins around 1200 B.C., but some believe the city could be far older. Whatever the case, the Tiwanaku (also spelled Tiahuanaco) people were flourishing between A.D. 400 and A.D. 900. They left evidence of a society with impressive technological skill and a highly developed cosmology. Lacking beasts of burden, the people of Tiwanaku nonetheless managed to haul huge stone slabs, some weighing several dozen tons, for miles to construct religious temples and the towering monolithic statues that guard over them. The structures are built to astrological specifications to track the progress of the sun and mark seasonal shifts -- very important for an empire built on agriculture. Today, it's hard to imagine that this arid, treeless land could produce a bounty of potato, quinoa, corn and even peaches. The citizenry's collective effort to cultivate this land allowed it to flourish, and they reaped the rewards. The empire of Tiwanaku eventually expanded to include most of Bolivia, as well as territory in present-day Peru, Chile and Argentina. But during the 12th century A.D., the empire collapsed. The prevailing theory today is that climate change caused crops to fail, eventually destabilizing the government. One of the most iconic sights at Tiwanaku is the Puerta del Sol, an imposing rectangular portal wrought from a single 45-ton stone slab that stands atop the Kalasasaya Temple. It is carved with symbols representing a powerful god, as well as elements of an astrological calendar. The pyramid of Akapana is another must-see, along with the red sandstone pillars with carved heads, possibly representing the practice of publicly displaying severed enemy heads. Tour companies operating out of La Paz can get you to Tiwanaku in less than an hour. You can also visit the Regional Museum of Tiwanaku Culture to view collections of stone and ceramic artifacts. www.bolivia.travel. 8 very old sites in the New World Skara Brae, Scotland Older than the Egyptian pyramids and Stonehenge, Skara Brae is a 5,000-year-old farming village along the white sand dunes of the Bay of Skaill, on the largest of the Orkney Islands. The best-preserved Neolithic village in Northern Europe was discovered in 1850 after a powerful storm roared through this archipelago north of the Scottish mainland. The houses are set into large mounds made of midden, or household waste. Part of the reason so many details of the village are known today is that the furnishings, like the dwellings themselves, were often made of stone. Many of Skara Brae's archaeological contemporaries are not nearly as well-preserved because their structures were made from wood. Not so here on a windswept island, where wood was hard to come by. After thousands of years of habitation, research suggests that climate change, perhaps responsible for brutal sandstorms, might have led the villagers to abandon the settlement around 2,500 years ago. www.historic-scotland.gov.uk. Mesa Verde, Colorado In the stillness of a summer evening in Mesa Verde National Park, it is fascinating to contemplate the network of villages that once stretched across the Colorado Plateau. For 700 years, starting around A.D. 600, the Ancestral Puebloan people, also referred to as the Anasazi, lived atop tree-dotted mesas and in elaborate, multistory buildings constructed into the sides of sheltering sandstone cliffs. More than 4,000 archaeological sites have been discovered here, and new discoveries occur regularly. Sometimes exceeding 8,000 feet, this was a harsh environment in which to build a civilization. People had to survive hot summers and freezing winters. The Pueblo people hunted and farmed corns, beans and squash and developed innovative ways to store water, including reservoirs and dams. But by A.D. 1300, it appears that their advances in irrigation and agriculture were insufficient in the face of a decades-long drought that dried up precious springs. This, perhaps in combination with environmental degradation and political pressures, may have caused the Ancient Puebloans to abandon their magnificent mesas. Several of the Mesa Verde cliff dwellings can be toured, including the 150-room Cliff Palace and Long House, as well as the Spruce Tree House and Balcony House. Of those, only the Spruce Tree House allows self-guided tours; to see most of the major cliff dwellings, visitors must take a ranger-led tour. Information about tours and the history and ecology of the park are available on the park website. www.nps.gov/meve/index.htm. Petra, Jordan It's not hard to understand why Petra is one of the world's most famous archaeological sites -- made even more so by its appearance in the 1989 film "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade." Enclosed by mountains and sheer rock, the city was carved out of massive cliffs of rose-colored sandstone 2,000 years ago by the Nabataeans, an Arab tribe. Despite its location in a barren desert prone to flash floods, the Nabataeans' sophisticated water system helped Petra survive and grow to become a major hub for trade routes linking China, India, the Mediterranean and the Middle East. In its heyday, massive trading caravans passed through the city. Petra eventually came under Roman rule, and a series of powerful earthquakes hastened its declined. It was eventually abandoned, although Bedouin tribes continued to watch over the magnificent ruins. To visit Petra, you must walk, ride a horse or take a horse-drawn carriage along the Siq road, a narrow passage of glowing rose-orange sandstone. At the end of the Siq is the magnificent Al Kazhneh, or "The Treasury," carved from a cliff and once believed to store untold riches. As the valley widens, the full splendor of Petra is revealed: elaborate tombs, eerie caves and an amphitheater constructed from the hillside. Two museums inside Petra display the city's art and artifacts. www.visitjordan.com. Knossos, Greece Five miles inland from the coast of Crete, Knossos was the center of the Minoan civilization, a powerful Bronze Age culture that flourished between about 3000 B.C. and 1400 B.C. According to myth, the god Zeus had a son, Minos, who became king of Knossos. Among the many legends about King Minos is that his wife gave birth to the Minotaur, a man-eating monster who was half-human, half-bull. Daedalus, an Athenian craftsman, designed a labyrinth in which to trap the Minotaur, and was later trapped there himself. Although there is much scholarly debate about the existence and location of the labyrinth, the myths speak of the Minoan empire's regional influence. Fueled by trade and their mastery of the sea, Knossos to become an advanced city with running water, paved roads and fine art, including elaborate metal work, pottery and brilliant frescoes. But when the mainland Greeks finally seized Crete, the Minoan civilization had already begun to crumble. Why? There are competing theories about what exactly brought down the Minoans. Most involve a massive volcanic eruption on the nearby island of Santorini, which sent an explosive plume of gas and ash miles into the sky. Some scientists believe the force of the volcano caused a tsunami, and it may even have altered the climate. If so, the result for the Minoans would have been devastating: badly damaged infrastructure, the heart of its trading center destroyed, its crops ruined. Within a couple of generations, Knossos and the broader Minoan civilization was hardly capable of defending their territory. Among the many highlights is the Palace of Knossos. Sometimes characterized as a town in itself, it had a huge central courtyard, public baths with running water and hundreds of rooms that served as shrines, workshops, storage and living quarters for a king and his vast household. Copies of vibrant frescoes with dolphins and dancing ladies in the royal apartments are also not to be missed. www.visitgreece.gr. The lost city of Atlantis For centuries, scholars have studied and debated the location of the lost city of Atlantis, which the ancient Greek philosopher Plato told was a city submerged beneath the sea overnight. But was this myth or fact? And if fact, where, exactly, does Atlantis lie? Theories have ranged from Cyprus, to North Africa to Santorini. (Remember the volcano thought to have brought down Knossos?) In 2011, an international research team grabbed headlines with the announcement that they may have discovered Atlantis in southern Spain, buried in the marshlands of Doana National Park. Using specialized radar and under water digital mapping tools, they found evidence of prior human habitation and suggested that this could be Atlantis, claimed by the sea during an ancient tsunami. Although the theory was strongly rejected by some, the investigation continues. For travelers endowed with a bit of imagination, a trip to Doana will be rewarding, regardless of the accuracy of the claim. For starters, the park is less than an hour's journey from Cadiz and Seville, two historic cities that should be on everyone's bucket list. You won't get to walk among any ruins, but this UNESCO Biosphere Reserve, with its rich diversity of birds and other wildlife, is an impressive setting in which to contemplate a lost civilization. www.spain.info/en.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/14/travel/irpt-library-fascination-travel/index.html	travel	Libraries are dying? Think again - CNN.com	2014/04/14	Monday Apr 14 08:59:12 EDT 2014	In honor of National Library Week, CNN iReport is asking people to share photos of their favorite libraries. Share your best photos here. (CNN) -- Like many visitors in Seattle, Glenn Nagel found himself in the city trying to avoid the rain. After wandering around, he eventually made his way to the Seattle Public Library to escape the dreary weather. Little did he know that stepping into Seattle's Central Library would spark his curiosity. The library's geometric glass and steel interior with its sprawling "books spiral" grabbed ahold of him. "It's just an incredible building," he said, still remembering his awe during that 2013 trip. "I spent an hour and a half just taking pictures, and while doing that, I was getting the idea that I should visit other libraries." This past year, Nagel has traveled to 12 libraries across the United States, photographing their shelves and hallways like an explorer. He's one of many people discovering a renewed fascination with libraries. He and other iReporters shared photos of libraries they visited with CNN iReport for National Library Week, observed April 13-19 this year. Despite the expansive digitalization of information, the use of public libraries remains popular, according to Cathy De Rosa, vice president for the Americas and global vice president of marketing at OCLC, a nonprofit computer library service organization. "It surprises people," she said, explaining there's a presumption amongst the public that libraries are becoming increasingly irrelevant. But despite enduring budget cutbacks and being forced to reinvent their services in the face of the ubiquitous Internet, public libraries remain staple institutions in various communities. There's been an increase in the use of public libraries in the U.S. over the past decade. Services such as public computers doubled in usage in the past 10 years, and libraries saw a circulation increase of 2.46 billion materials in 2010, the highest ever reported, according to a report by the Institute of Museum and Library Services. Some libraries bring in more than just patrons. They are also popular amongst tourists, drawing visitors by the tens of thousands, if not millions. The Seattle Public Library system, for example, attracts more than 7 million people through its doors each year. "The Central Library is one of the most beautiful modern buildings in Seattle, and it really celebrates the people," said Andra Addison, a spokesperson for the library. Smaller libraries matter, too Americans strongly value the role of public libraries in their community, according to findings by the Pew Research Center. In fact, 94% of people polled in 2013 said that having a public library improves the quality of life in a community. Jennifer Roberts, a writing teacher, agrees. She spent many summer days with her daughters, Lucy and Miriam, visiting their local library in Grants Pass, Oregon. But in 2007, all the libraries in Josephine County closed down for a number of reasons. It devastated her daughters who were then 7 and 5. "Lucy told me she was really sad she wouldn't get to 'visit the books,' " Roberts said, remembering her daughter sobbing at the news. Roberts was determined to find a way to help reopen the libraries in her area. The community banded together to raise $300,000 in 18 months. They even got a matching grant from Josephine County, which helped the libraries reopen. The experience helped Roberts rediscover the value of her local library. "I actually didn't grow up visiting many libraries," she said. "I didn't discover that wonder until I was much older. Perhaps that's why they seem so magical to me now." 'Libraries reflect who we are' Robert Dawson wanted to capture the value of public libraries through his lens. He spent the past 18 years photographing libraries and interviewing people who work and use them. In his recently published book, "The Public Library: A Photographic Essay," which includes hundreds of photographs of libraries in 48 states, Dawson says he was drawn to libraries because they are vital part of a community's ecosystem. "Often times, a library reveals things about a community. It was really sad to see a closed library when I was passing through the Mississippi Delta," he said, explaining how that was one of the poorer regions he visited. "I am not a librarian, but 18 years of doing this, you peel away things," he said. "It's interesting how libraries reflect who we are, and what we share. Barbara Stripling, president of the American Library Association, says libraries are also incredibly transformative. These spaces offer not only information but also provide resources and opportunities to socialize. Some libraries are "becoming more of a community sharing, learning, conversation space," she explained. Programs such as the Chicago Public Library's One Book, One Chicago, an initiative adopted from the Seattle Public Library, aims to rally virtual community engagement around monthly book selections. Take a tour of the world's most exquisite libraries  Others are rebranding themselves as places where people can explore their passions. Programs such as Geek the Library, which is part of OCLC, partners with libraries to promote the idea that everyone "geeks out" about something, and a local library can help you recognize your special passion. Through his 18 years of documenting libraries, Dawson says he's seen many of them adapt and transform for their communities. Some took on new daily roles, such as teaching people to write resumes or providing social services. "In San Francisco, they have a dedicated social worker, especially for the homeless," he said. Others became safe havens. "When I was in Detroit, it one of the hottest days on record, I walked into a library. There was this huge guard at the front, the air conditioning was blasting, it was packed, and everyone was reading. And I sort of got it -- it was a place of shelter." Olaf Eigenbrodt, librarian and senior head of user services and adviser for planning and construction at State and University Library Hamburg in Germany, says there are three main reasons why libraries continue to be popular today: They are information hotspots; they are places communities can gather; and they provide learning collaboration. They even provide an element of comfort. "Libraries tend to become more cozy, relaxing and communicative places. Other than public spaces like museums, they have a certain private character, which makes them a living room for their community," Eigenbrodt said. Dawson thinks a part of people's fascination with libraries is sort of irrational, too, but in a good way. He attributes our love for libraries to our childhood memories. "I think a lot of it goes back to being a kid. There's an emotional connection that is somewhat unique. A lot of kids discover libraries with their parents when they are younger," he explained. That affinity can be partially psychological, according to De Rosa of OCLC. "I would find it difficult to find 10 people in a crowd who didn't have a positive experience in a library. That's a personal thing," she said. "It's why libraries continue to be relevant." Addison, from the Seattle Public Library, says the most alluring factor of a public library is simple -- it's free. "Where else can you go that offers all this for free? Whether you're in a three-piece suit or a three-day beard, you can go into a library and be welcomed." CNN's Daphne Sashin and Margaret Blaha, special to CNN, contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/06/travel/escape-debate-all-inclusive-resorts/index.html	travel	In defense of the all-inclusive resort - CNN.com	2014/02/06	Thursday Feb 6 08:25:06 EST 2014	(CNN) -- We see your nose turning up at the notion of booking an all-inclusive resort in Mexico or Jamaica or the Bahamas. Are you picturing bad buffets, cheap booze and partying within the resort walls, never leaving to explore local culture? All that does exist, and more power to you if you're not picky about uncomplicated, affordable R&R. Some 14% of U.S. travelers stayed in an all-inclusive in 2012, compared to 8% in 2010, according to Douglas Quinby, PhoCusWright's vice president of research. We know all-inclusive resorts aren't always the most daring way to go on vacation. And if you're dead set against it, just skip it. But if you're on the fence -- curious but worried about the stereotypes -- read on as we look at some of the half-truths of this travel experience. There's as much variety among all-inclusive resorts as there is among hotels, and it's up to you to find the right one for you. It's not all included "All-inclusive" generally means travelers are charged one price for their rooms, all food and drink (including certain alcohol brands) and some other activities, says Tom Hall, the England-based director of Lonely Planet's online editorial. Package prices can vary, depending on the size and location of your room. Upscale alcohol brands, motorized water sports, spa treatments and off-site excursions are generally not included, but they could be at your resort. "What you actually get for your money differs from resort to resort," Hall says. Some resorts offer "resort credits" that can be used toward the not-included resort expenses. It's not always cheap While packaging may yield significant savings, you can easily spend a bundle depending on your choice of budget versus elegant all-inclusive, which country you visit, the time of year you're traveling, room size and room location (ocean versus garden view). And off-site excursions and spa treatments add to the tab. A week for two at a budget all-inclusive resort with the typical buffet line could cost $1,150 to $1,600, while a moderate all-inclusive with a few more food choices could cost $1,650 to $3,500, says Sara Butruff, a Travel Leaders travel agent in Apple Valley, Minnesota. A premium all-inclusive resort could cost from $3,600 to $10,000 or moreand lots of amenities could be included in that high-end choice. But there's value in knowing the final price up front. With everything paid for ahead of time, "you know exactly how much your room and meals will be, and if you don't want to, you don't have to spend another dime," says Debby Simonton, a stay-at-home mom in Coplay, Pennsylvania, who loves to take her family to all-inclusive resorts every couple of years. To Disney or not to Disney? It's not all bland buffet food Simonton knows how to work the food options at all-inclusive resorts. Her favorite spot, Hilton Rose Hall Resort & Spa in Jamaica, offers six restaurant options (some with reservations required), two bars and room service. Simonton loves to try dishes that might be too expensive at home if it turns out she doesn't like them. But she's also happy for the resorts to have food she knows everyone in her family will like. And what about that buffet line? "Learning how to 'work' a buffet comes with a little practice," she says. "Want your omelet to have better cheese than the shredded cheddar the omelet chef has? Go to the cheese bar, grab some and take it to the chef." Basic all-inclusives offer buffets and local brand alcohol, while the moderate all-inclusives may offer lobster or other fancier fare for a surcharge, says Butruff, the Minnesota travel agent. Premium resorts often have more restaurants, a la carte restaurants and premium spiritsall included. Camping: Horror or bliss? Resorts owned by the same company may offer reciprocal dining privileges to give you diverse dining options. "Let's say you are staying at the Sandals Royal Caribbean in Jamaica," says American Express travel agent Linda D'Arcy, based in Oak Brook, Illinois. "You can grab the complimentary transfer over to the Sandals Montego Bay resort and eat (complimentary) at the Japanese restaurant on site at the Sandals Mo Bay, which they do not have at the Sandals Royal Caribbean property." Some resorts include dining coupons in resort packages, which guests can use in town for dinner at no extra cost. For a fixed additional fee, you can often add specialty courses to your stay. Karisma's El Dorado Royale resort in the Riviera Maya, Mexico, charges an additional $260 for its weeklong wine experience, which includes tastings, cooking courses, pairings and a special dinner. A variation on the all-inclusive There also are resorts that offer flexible -- and often elegant-- food packages. The cost is set so you're not surprised, but you can opt out of some daily meals to allow for exploration of local dining spots. Beverly Ross recently returned from the Spa Retreat Boutique Hotel in Negril, where she chose a meal plan that was incorporated into the total cost of her stay. Ross researched all-inclusive vacations in Jamaica before choosing the Spa Retreat, which offers partially inclusive and all-inclusive meal plans. "The menu was designed around local fresh fish and produced with healthy eating in mind. It was not a buffet and the chef would prepare what you requested," said Ross, a sociologist who teaches at California University of Pennsylvania. Is your cruise ship safe? Not thinking is not an option Fail to do your research about what's included (or not) at a particular resort and you're more likely to get stuck with food that doesn't satisfy, too-cheap alcohol, cheesy staff entertainment or high prices for off-site excursions. You might even show up during hurricane season or the colder time of year. Some resorts have local brews as part of their included alcohol but charge extra for top-shelf brands, if they carry them at all. Resort restaurants--and the number and quality varies from resort to resort--may have restrictions on how many nights you can reserve a table at their swankier spots. The fancier the resort, the more likely it is to carry higher-end brands and serve higher-end food, and include them in the price. Minnesota-based Butruff sends lots of cold-weather clients to warm-weather resorts. Couples often come into her office with completely different ideas about what they want on vacation, so she quizzes them. "What do you want to do on vacation?" she says. "What types of hotels have you already stayed in? What types of adventures have you had?" "Often what they want is not what they've said they want." It's not all drunken parties (unless you want it to be) All-inclusive alcoholic drinks are part of the appeal. But you can choose a resort that focuses on lots of drinking way into the night or one that shuts down the bars at 8 p.m. Some resorts keeps the intensive drinking segregated to the resort bar or elsewhere. The more upscale resorts will be a little quieter, says D'Arcy, although their clientele aren't necessarily limiting their drinking. "I have seen people who are very drunk but expertly handled by the staff." The drinking doesn't bother Melissa McCloud. "As far as the sometimes crazy party scene, if that is not your thing, go hang out elsewhere on the resort," says McCloud, a stay-at-home mom from Bolingbrook, Illinois, who visits all-inclusive resorts once or twice per year. "These all-inclusives are usually huge places, and there are plenty of places to go and things to do that do not involve that!" 50 states, 50 spots for 2014 It doesn't mean you're dull It's true that some people just want to chill out on vacation, sitting by the pool or beach with free-flowing fruity drinks. There's nothing wrong with that, especially when there's an Arctic tundra at home. But you don't have to stay within the walls. Step out and explore local food and culture, swim with the dolphins and do zip lining for a fee. (Look for resort credits to fund those excursions.) If you want that local flavor, choose a resort that's not miles and miles from the closest towns and attractions. Some people want a specific sense of community that all-inclusives can provide, whether it's a focus on hedonism, romance, LGBT families or sobriety. Sober Vacations International has taken over Club Med Turquoise in the Turks & Caicos the week ending February 8, 2014. Reserving the resort allows people in recovery to vacation with the support of other people trying to stay sober. There's no need to be so snide And be wary, you hip, do-it-yourself critics of the all-inclusive resort. Right now you're backpacking through Latin America, jumping off trains in Eastern Europe when you hear about a cool new art installation, or strolling through Tokyo to track down the latest underground bar. Now put a baby in your Ergo baby carrier. Not so cool anymore, right? A few years from now, you may be partnered with kids in diapers, says Lonely Planet's Hall. Cool is less important than a full night's sleep, teaching your daughter to swim or holding your spouse's hand as you watch the sunset. "An all-inclusive may be the way to go," he says. Maybe you'll even want to bring the grandparents. Have you been to an all-inclusive resort? Why or why not? Please share your thoughts and experiences in the comments section below.   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/travel/mount-everest-american-climber/index.html	travel	An empty Everest: But should you climb? - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 11:45:42 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- At Camp 3 of Mount Everest at an altitude of 7,200 meters, an American woman, 50-year-old Cleonice Pacheco Weidlich, sits in a solitary tent. Outside, fierce winds of more than 50 knots are raging. She waits. Soon blizzard-bearing monsoon clouds will gather around Everest and bring an end to the climbing season on the high Himalayas. It will also draw a shroud over one of the single deadliest tragedies the world's highest mountain has ever witnessed. Before she can make begin her ascent, Weidlich must not only find a gap in the weather and a way over the avalanche, but also face down the growing controversies that erupted around continued activity on Everest in the wake of the disaster. More than 300 international climbers abandoned their goal of reaching the mountain's summit after an April 18 avalanche in the mountain's treacherous Khumbu Icefall killed 16 Nepalese Sherpa mountaineers. The immediate aftermath of the disaster brought confusion and anger to the mountain as arguments raged over whether climbing should continue, the money paid to Sherpas and compensation for the sacrifices made. After avalanche, Nepal opens up unclimbed peaks Domino effect Some Sherpas called an unofficial moratorium on further climbs, with one group even reportedly sabotaging equipment. With safety in doubt, many international climbing companies decided to pull the plug, leading to a domino effect that also swept up the independent climbers who rely on shared resources. "If 30% of your workforce walks away, it compromises your operational capabilities, given the difficulties of finding new porters, cooks, and guides in short time in the Khumbu," said one guide from a leading operator. Many were resigned to the sudden end to the season. "I feel very sad about the Sherpas," said Ake Lindstrom, an adventure operator from Tanzania. "Everybody knows each other; it is a small community and their loss is very tangible. It takes a small amount of empathy to let go of one's frustration." Weidlich, however, stayed. Later she was joined by Wang Jing, a 41-year-old Chinese woman also determined to press ahead with an attempt on the summit. Despite their determination in the face of calls for a halt to climbing, many Sherpas CNN Travel spoke to were not unhappy with their plans. Instead, they voiced other concerns, including the disparity they perceive between local and international guide salaries, overcrowding on the mountain, a lack of respect to their mountain god and those who died. There was also anger towards the Nepalese government over its response to the tragedy. Among the Everest climbing community questions were raised about the safety prior to the deaths. Some Sherpas said there had been too many on the mountain on the day of the disaster, with long lines forming as people traversed the ladders over crevasses. Mourning in an Everest Sherpa village 'One mistake and you are done' "It was so packed that for some, there was no place to hide when the ice started to fall," one said. "We never saw so many people on the icefall on one day." One expert expressed strong concerns about renewed climbing. "The mountains are in constant movement, which is what makes the icefall dangerous," said Gian Piero Verza, of the Pyramid high-altitude research center, located at 5,050 meters on Everest. "You have to consider that in two months of expeditions, some Sherpas spend an average of three hours daily on the icefall to carry their load. For some that is 200 hours in a very dangerous place." Veteran expedition leader Jamie McGuinness, however, said he was surprised that more did not defy the exodus to take advantage of conditions similar to those when Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing Norgay first summited in 1953. "Hard-core mountaineers would jump at the chance to have Everest and Lhotse all for themselves during the best climbing season," he says. "But being there without backup is like being back in epic Hillary's time: one mistake and you are done." Back at Camp 3, in her gale-battered tent, Weidlich is convinced she is doing the right thing by continuing with her plan to summit Lhotse, a peak connected to Everest's South Col. She says she knows the family of one of the victims and when she visited them after the disaster was not met with hostility and was invited to stay for the funeral. "I asked them if they felt it would be disrespectful if I continued with my climbing plan," she says. "They were concerned about my safety, but they never brought up the issue of respect." Weidlich, who is on a personal mission to climb all 14 of the world's mountains over 8,000 meters, says the problem lies with assisted climbing. "High mountains are dangerous, and climbing is all about the experience. You have to evaluate the risks. But Everest has become a completely different place: it is a showtime place. People come here to make silly records. American climber recounts how Sherpa saved his life Climbing in isolation "This is not real mountaineering. To me, if you cannot free climb a mountain and you need someone else to help you up or down, you don't belong on it." Weidlich hits out at claims that Sherpas had forced people to abandon the mountain saying they had treated her well. She also speaks of the excitement of climbing in isolation. "I am very much looking forward to experiencing the mountain for what it is, without the crowds. It will be rewarding to be in contact with nature -- to hear the cracking of the ice and not the generators." When at last the gales ease, it is finally time for Weidlich to face the mountain, but she is ultimately unable to reach her goal. Because of the dangers on the Icefall, both Weidlich and Wang bypass it using helicopters -- a highly controversial move that could invalidate any claim to a successful climb. Wang reaches the summit of Everest on May 23 along with five Sherpas. Weidlich, however, decides to abandon her attempt on Lhotse because "that would be like claiming a whole mountain when I would only have climbed half of it." Shortly afterward, the monsoon closes in for good, leaving Everest to brood alone over another season of triumphs for some and tragedies for others. Andrea Oschetti is a Hong Kong-based freelance travel writer currently traveling through Bhutan and Nepal. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/travel/hungary-best-wine-cellars/index.html	travel	100% Vampire-proof: Hungary's best wine cellars - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 04:34:54 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It may lie in Szepasszonyvolgy -- or what locals call the Valley of the Beautiful Women -- but the Golen Cellar isn't much to look at. Nevertheless, behind this simple cavern's red doors, stenciled with the image of Bacchus, lie barrels of the best wine to be found in one of Hungary's most beautiful vineyard destinations. Menoire is a half-sweet and fruity red wine, low in tannins. My Hungarian mother, whose family once owned vineyards in the area, would bring me here amid the musty aroma of oak barrels and the waft of red onions on zsiros kenyer -- bread topped with lard, onion and paprika. The wine would be decanted unceremoniously into a huge two-liter recycled Coke bottle. 'Not the rubbish you get in supermarkets' For her, the wine in the Szepasszonyvolgy recalled her student days in the city's college and her family's connection with the area. "Your grandfather made white wine like this," she said when tasting a glass of Csersegi Fuszeres, another local favorite. "This is proper cellar wine, not the rubbish you get in the supermarkets." MORE: Budapest's breakout clubs go global They take wine very seriously in this part of northeastern Hungary, close to the edge of the Bukk Mountains. At one time the local red "bulls blood" was supposed to give residents of the main town of Eger supernatural strength to ward off vampirism -- a legend born from its violent past as a trophy in battles with Ottoman invaders. Even when my mother's family lost its vineyards after World War II, my grandfather never gave up making his own wine. Today, wine is still the blood that flows through the town's culture. Eger is the ideal destination for wine fans looking for an informal tasting trip. The lack of pretension in the cellars is a big plus for those wanting an introduction to the local produce. 'Bull's blood' It's the topographical ingredients of the Eger region that make it ideal for winemaking. It has limestone and clay-based slopes along with a cool climate, not dissimilar to Burgundy in France. Eger's grape-growing country spreads out into 5,000 hectares of vineyards, and includes wines areas that carry a protected status. Among them is Debroi Harslevelu, a golden wine produced in Eger's Debro district that carries the aroma of linden flowers and a rich sweetness. Others include Egri Bikaver (better known as the anti-vampiric "bull's blood"). Synonymous with Eger, Egri Bikaver is one of Hungary's most famous red wines, known for its ruby color and spicy notes. The wine comprises a blend of at least three of 17 red grape types from the Eger district. It varies between wineries, but the Kadarka grape, supposedly brought over during the Ottoman occupation, often anchors it. Szepasszonyvolgy and its more than 200 wine cellars are easily reached from the center of Eger via the miniature train that departs from Egeszseghaz Street. Each cellar has its own distinct flavor. MORE: Is this Europe's most interesting zoo? The ones located at the base of the valley pulse at night from local activity and live gypsy music, while others are more spartan, pulling in the crowds with quality wine. The Hagymasi Cellar, at number 19, is by far the most spectacular, a cathedral to wine carved under the hill. It's worth visiting for the architecture alone, or for its pince lepeny, a buckwheat pancake filled with ham and cheese -- perfect to soak up the alcohol. And, of course, at the top of the hill, at number 28-29, there's the Golen Cellar. These days there's no need to bring your own recycled Coke bottle. Here are others to try: St. Andrea This is a fairly young cellar following traditional and classic methods, aiming to redefine Eger's wines for the 21st century. Recommended wines: Hangacs Egri Bikaver 2007; Csakegyszoval Pinot Noir 2006 or 2004. St. Andrea, 88 Ady Endre Street, Egerszalok +36 36 474 018  Kovacs Nimrod Located in the historic backstreets of Eger, this restored historic winery offers tasting and excellent vintages sought by collectors. Recommended wines: Nagyeged Furmint 2010; Monopole Rhapsody Bull's Blood 2009. Kovacs Nimrod, 66 Veroszala Street, Eger +36 36 537 232 Thummerer Located in the village of Noszvaj, just outside of Eger, this family-run cellar offers high-class, award winning wines you'll find in exclusive restaurants all over Europe. Recommended wines: Egri Csillag 2012; Vili Papa Cuvee 2006. Thummerer, Szomolyai Street, Noszvaj +36 36 463 269 Juhasz Peter This wine cellar is located right in the Szepasszonyvolgy, so it's easy to visit for tastings. There's also a wine museum in the cellar. Recommended wines: Egri Bikaver 2008; Egri Csillag 2011. Juhasz Peter, Cellar 40, Pinceborozo, Szepasszonyvolgy, Eger, +36-36 436 432  Galtibor One of the leading wineries in the Eger region, combining traditional techniques with modern technology. Recommended wine: Egri Bikaver Superior 2009. Galtibor, 22-32 Veroszala Street, Eger, +36 20 85 25 005 Vincze Winery with a solid reputation for being one of the top wine makers in the region. It also produces certified organic wines. Recommended wines: Vincze Cuvee 2002; Egri Pinot Noir 2007. Vincze, 2 Mester Street, Eger +36 36 427 515 Sike One of the few local wineries harvesting mature grapes, Sike produces very sweet "ice wines," or wines closely resembling the Hungary's famous sweet Tokaj wines. Recommended wine: Debroi Harszlevelu Bothrytises 2006. Sike, 43 Disznofosor Street, Eger +36 30 742 9024 MORE: Budapest's best ruin bars CNN Travel's series often carries sponsorship originating from the countries and regions we profile. However CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports. Read the policy.     Jennifer Walker is an Anglo-Hungarian writer and former physicist living in Budapest. She tweets at @JDWalkerWriter. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/14/travel/rio-lapa/index.html	travel	Moving to the rhythms of Rio's Lapa nightlife district - CNN.com	2014/05/14	Wednesday May 14 01:59:17 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The banner on the back wall of the old dance hall says in Portuguese: "While there is dance, we still have hope." There's plenty of that as the crowd of Cariocas (Rio locals) shake hips and move their feet on the worn, wooden dance floor to an eight-piece band playing irresistible samba. The cheap Brahma beer is flowing, the tables are close together and new friends are made easily. It's a euphoric window on local life, courtesy of Estudantina Musical, a place that's been serving up happy feet on the periphery of the Lapa district of Rio for 85 years. By the end of the night, I've met Reynaldo dos Santos, a retired businessman, who's here every Friday night. His advice for anyone trying to improve their samba dancing: Don't worry about anyone else. Move what you can while you can and "don't have shame." Rio's Lapa district can help you with that. It's the headquarters for the best clubs, nightlife and music in Rio, with an emphasis on the vital rhythm that unites all Brazilians -- samba. Walk a few blocks in this compact collection of 19th-century edifices and you'll be treated to a host of joints hopping with live music and particularly samba. MORE: 8 of Brazil's best beaches The Monmatre of Rio At one bar, it's an acoustic samba de roda group with drums and cavaquinho, a steel-stringed ukelele-sized instrument. At another club, there's a lively band with a horn section doing samba gafieira, the swinging brass version of the music that fuels couples dancing. At another, you might hear choro, a guitar-based precursor of samba. Lapa is the historic cultural heart of Rio, where bohemians and artists have gathered through the decades. It was once called the Montmarte of Rio, after the artist quarter in Paris. By the 1970s it had become a seedy, derelict zone to avoid. But as has happened in so many cities, redevelopment revitalized it into a nightlife hub. Many of the old mansions in the area, home to Rio's wealthy until the arrival of the 20th century, have been restored and now house bars, cafes and clubs. The sidewalks of Lapa are buzzing most nights until the early hours, with musical options ranging from the traditional -- samba, choro, forro -- to Musica Popular Brasileira (MPB), a signature Brazilian take on modern pop and rock that's produced great artists such as Caetano Veloso and Milton Nascimento. MORE: Five-minute guide to Brazilian barbecue More than partying ... but, still, partying Even if it weren't a hive of music and partying, Lapa would be worth a visit. The double decker Roman-style aqueduct, Arcos da Lapa, hearkens to the 1700s, when Rio drew its water from the hills above. The 19th-century mansions, dressed up in a variety of colorful pastels, look like they were beamed in from old Lisbon. Lapa feels more like Portugal than the modern Brazil of Copacabana and Ipanema. Top music venues include Rio Scenarium and Carioca da Gema, where the best known samba artists perform regularly. Samba grew out of a fusion of African drum circles and European marches and choro. There are many styles of samba, and you can catch a lot of them in Lapa. Samba chronicles the struggles of life and love, and conquers them through the joy of the music. It allows participants to jiu-jitsu a bad day at the drop of a cavaquinho, the hyper instrument that revs samba. Here's some of the top spots for music. READ: Powerful flavor: Rio's incredible juice bars Cafe Cultural Sacrilegio Located in a renovated mansion that was once home to composer Joao Pernambuco, an associate of Brazilian musical icons Villa Lobos and Pixinguinha, and where Carmen Miranda learned the millinery trade, Cafe Cultural Sacrilegio features a great lineup of samba de roda, pagode, and choro artists on its main stage. Eclectic and artistic, it lives up to the bohemian vibe of Lapa's roots. On Fridays and Saturdays after the last live performance, there's modern dance music from deejays deep into the morning hours. Cafe Cultural Sacrilegio, Avenue Mem de Sa, 81; +55 21 3970 1461 Rio Scenarium The most famous of Lapa's clubs, and the most idiosyncratic, Rio Scenarium is what happens when someone decides to put a club in the middle of an antique store. The esoteric nightspot is three floors' worth of antique clocks, paintings and chandeliers, reflecting the vintage neighborhood of Lapa. Its first-floor stage and dance area host the gamut of Brazilian stylings, from rock to MPB, samba, reggae and forro. Rio Scenarium, Rua do Lavradia, Casa 20; +55 21 3147 9000 Bar Semente This cozy room near the Lapa arches was a trailblazer in the revival of Lapa. The club helped launch some of samba's and Lapa's leading performers, from Teresa Cristina to Casuarina and Grupo Semente. Known for presenting quality artists in an unpretentious style, Semente (which means "seed") is a reliable stop for samba and choro music. Bar Semente, Rua Joaquim Silva, 138; +55 21 2509 3591 MORE: Brazil's thriving African culture Carioca Da Gema Arriving early is essential for this seminal Lapa club. Its tiny and sells out quickly, particularly on the weekend. Why? It offers a close look at some of the top musical talent in Brazil. The club -- its name means "yolk of the egg" in Portuguese -- specializes in samba de roda. Many of Rio's top samba artists perform here regularly. Ana Costa and the queen of Lapa, Teresa Cristina, often show up to deliver a pure fix of this marvelous city's marvelous music. The main floor is for dancing, and the few tables fill up quickly. Carioca Da Gema, Rua Mem de Sa 79, Lapa; +55 21 2221 0043; $12-14 cover charge Estudantina Musical Authenticity, local color, cultural immersion -- this old dance hall on the edge of Lapa has all that and more. Up the wide wooden staircase lies a world far from the usual tourist sections. Estudantina caters to a clientele of working people and extended families who have been coming here for decades. The bands are top notch, from the popular take on samba, known as pagode, to samba de roda, ballroom and forro. Dance lessons are available. MORE: Best day trips from Rio Estudantia Musical, Praca Tiradentes 79-81; +55 21 2232 1149 Author of the book "Work to Live," Joe Robinson has written for numerous publications including the Los Angeles Times. He's traveled extensively in Brazil. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/travel/hungary-lego-tower/index.html	travel	World's tallest Lego tower built in Budapest - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 08:13:29 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Imagine the size of the box this one came in -- a Lego tower stretching 36 meters into the sky above the Hungarian capital Budapest. The 34.76- meter (114 feet) tower, which was completed on Sunday, has been certified as the world's tallest toy brick structure by Guinness World Records. It beat the previous record holder, a 34.4-meter structure constructed last year with the help of U.S. students from a school in Delaware. A spokesman for Guinness World Records confirmed that the tower qualified as the "tallest structure built with interlocking plastic bricks." He said the record was officially registered to Lego Store Budapest on May 25. The Budapest tower, topped by a Rubik's cube -- a Hungarian invention -- was also built with the help of Hungarian primary school children, according to local news websites. The structure, built in front of the city's St. Stephen's Basilica, used hundreds of thousands of blocks. MORE: Budapest's escape games go global CNN Travel's series often carry sponsorship originating from the countries and regions we profile. However, CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports. Read the policy. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/travel/50-state-travelers-what-counts/index.html	travel	Visiting all 50 states: What counts? - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 04:42:56 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- For those on a quest to visit all 50 United States, each one is like a jagged piece of a very large jigsaw puzzle. Fitting in all 50 states is an impressive achievement. In fact, anyone who knocks 35 off the list is eligible for membership in the exclusive All Fifty Club, an organization that recognizes individuals who make it to every state with a plaque or certificate to commemorate their accomplishment.  To "visit" a state, a person has to step outside the airport and breathe the air, according to the organization's website. Airport layovers mean nothing. Those who are truly passionate about making it to all 50 states often have their own criteria for crossing them off the list, from a hard-core requirement of staying in a state for more than a month to simply hopping out of the car to snap a picture at the border. American odyssey: 50 states in 31 years CNN asked avid 50-staters to run down their requirements. Here's how it's done: Go beyond the border Back in 1976, Don Carswell of New Jersey, now 53, and his friend Tom White made a bet to see who would be the first one to set foot in all 50 states. At stake was a six-pack of beer. In order to count a state as "visited," the two men agreed that they had to spend at least one full hour in a state during the day, be outdoors at least part of the time, set foot on the actual ground, and go beyond the state's border. Airport property also didn't count. The bet lasted 15 years, until Carswell received a postcard from White declaring he had reached his 50th state. Carswell was still two states shy of completing his goal, making sure he followed the criteria they set when they first made the bet. It took seven more years for Carswell to visit Oregon, the one state he needed. "Being one state shy annoyed me. I needed to take matters into my own hands," he said. Sent to San Francisco on business in 1998, he extended his stay to rent a car and drive north to Oregon. "I was sure to send Tom a card," Carswell recalled. It simply said, '50!' " 50 states, 50 spots to visit in 2014 Let the kids choose Together the Holmes family of Pennsylvania has traveled to 40 states. Their oldest child, Cate, is barely a teenager. Wendy Holmes says that she and her husband, Chris, have been taking their 13-year-old daughter Cate and 7-year-old son Tom on trips since they were infants. Once Cate and Tom were old enough, Holmes and her husband started letting them take turns deciding where the family would go each year. Because the family often drives to their destinations, they try to stop in as many states as they can in one trip. "We're not competitive," Holmes said, but they are strategic. "We do have plans on which states to visit over the next few years so that we do hit 50 before our daughter leaves for college." Holmes keeps track of the states they've seen in an Excel spreadsheet, using the list to plan what stops they'll make on future trips. "We drive so much on our vacations and camp a lot. We've actually gotten out and seen the states." The family typically stays in each state they visit for three days, but apart from how long they stay, there's really only one other agreed-upon criterion. "My husband has (visited) 46 states. He's not allowed to get to 50 unless we're all together." Go back to fill in the blanks Justin Clark Pollard had a deadline to meet. He and his wife, Dana, had been taking long road trips during their summers off from teaching since 2009. It wasn't until their second big road trip in 2012 that they saw how close they were to visiting all 50 states, and they decided to go for it. But Pollard wanted to push this goal even further. The deadline: His 30th birthday. "I used (turning) 30 as a reason to do this, to keep traveling places I might not go otherwise," he said. On an old road atlas he keeps in the glove compartment of a baby blue Nissan, Pollard kept track of all the states he and his wife visited. At the bare minimum, he considers getting a snapshot at a state's border beneath the welcome sign enough to circle it on his map. But on average he and his wife try to stay in each state at least two days. They even took seasonal jobs at Glacier Bay National Park in Alaska for seven weeks so they would have the opportunity to really witness its wildlife. When they got back home to Georgia after their Alaska trip, Pollard's deadline was fast approaching. With only three weeks until he turned 30, the couple packed up and raced to hit the two states they had yet to see: Michigan and Wisconsin. Despite their short stay in each state, Pollard was not disappointed. "No matter how much time I stay in a state, I'm never going to see the whole thing," he said. These road trips are "highlight trips." Now that he and his wife have seen all 50 states, they're able to stay in one place a little longer. "On the road trips we saw what all the states were known for, and now we can go back and explore them in depth."  Connect with people Long-time friends Kristin Sweetman and Katie Stern, both 29, have put their lives on hold to embark on a seven-month journey across the country, volunteering in each state they visit. "We were both at points where we needed direction in our lives. We were both in ruts and needed a change to do something else," said Sweetman, who quit her job before leaving on this trip. Since the two women started on their journey from their homes in Minnesota on April 28, they have already picked up nine states. They have been staying in each state for anywhere from three to five days, devoting one full day to volunteering and staying at campsites or with other volunteers they work with. In West Virginia, the women worked in a community garden with Conscious Harvest Cooperative, a group of West Virginia University students and Morgantown residents who grow food for local pantries. In the Adirondacks in upstate New York, they found a local farmer and helped him grow tomatoes. Next, they're volunteering in Boston with Hope Lodge, baking snacks for the families of cancer patients. They're journaling and blogging about their experiences in each state, and they use a calendar to keep themselves organized and on track. But they're really in no rush to finish their journey across the country. They want to live in the moment and see where it takes them, Sweetman says. "We want to connect with the different people we meet on this trip," Sweetman said. "There are so many people who have opened their homes and their hearts to us, and that's how we get a true idea of what a place is really like."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/travel/crazy-rock-formations/index.html	travel	13 crazy rock formations across the United States - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 08:56:21 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Our planet is chock full of the beautiful and bizarre. Give nature millions of years to work its magic and some pretty weird formations emerge from solid rock. From violent volcanic eruptions to the slow movement of wind and water, the forces of nature have made the United States, particularly the western half of the country, a showcase for wild-looking sculpture. Here are some of the most awe-inspiring places in the country to witness these odd rock formations: Mono Lake Tufa State Natural Reserve, California To visit Mono Lake is to behold an other-worldly landscape. Located just 13 miles east of Yosemite National Park, this ancient lake receives salt and minerals from Sierra streams, creating calcium carbonate spires called tufa towers that rise majestically from the water. As fresh water evaporates from the lake, it leaves behind the salt, making the lake more than twice as salty as the ocean and offering visitors the opportunity for a buoyant swim during warmer summer months. In winter, snow glitters dramatically on the tufas. Stop at the visitors center to learn more about the natural history of the region, then try the self-guided nature trail to experience this unique landscape firsthand. It's a paradise for photographers and nature lovers. World's scariest, best water slides Goblin Valley State Park, Utah Southern Utah is one of the most spectacular geological shows on Earth. With so many peculiar rock formations here, visits to Bryce Canyon, Arches or Canyonlands National Parks, to name a few, will not disappoint. But two parks really stand out in the category of rocks with character. One is Goblin Valley State Park near the town of Green River. Below dramatic red buttes and cliffs lies a valley populated with thousands of uncannily mushroom-shaped hoodoos, rock pillars shaped by water erosion and dust blown across the valley, that resemble goblins. Every hour and every weather condition creates a different mood in this surreal landscape. In the winter, the park offers snowshoeing and skiing amid a breathtaking scene of snow on red rocks. Stay for sunset and see the goblins glow like burning embers. 10 record-setting natural wonders in the U.S. Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, Utah Escalante-Grand Staircase National Monument is Utah's other rock star. This enormous, 1.7 million acre property offers hikes to spectacular formations like Metate Arch in Devil's Garden and the Wahweap Hoodoos, slender, ghostly rocks that can reach several stories high. For a short and easy hike, try the Toadstools Trail to see special white, beige and red hoodoos formed by large boulders perched above softer, eroded rock. They give new meaning to the term "magic mushrooms." Stop at the Bureau of Land Management office in Kanab or Escalante to review maps, learn about weather advisories and other information important in preparing for the harsh conditions in this sometimes other-worldly land. Shiprock, Navajo Nation, New Mexico Driving north from Gallup, New Mexico, on State Route 491 toward the Four Corners Monument, one passes through the vast, arid lands of the eastern Navajo Nation. To the north are the Rockies. To the west, the Chuska Mountains on the border of Arizona and New Mexico. And to the east, the dusty, sparsely-vegetated landscape of the San Juan Basin seems to go on forever, like a wide dry sea. But eventually, a jagged dark figure looms on the horizon like ship sailing through the desert -- or, as Navajos refer to it, "rock with wings." Shiprock is the remnants of a volcano that erupted more than 30 million years ago. At nearly 1,600 feet, it's the single most prominent figure on this desert landscape. There are no amenities at the site, and it is forbidden to hike or climb on this sacred peak. Just pull off the road for a stunning photo, or walk around to enjoy sound of the wind as it blows dramatic cloud shadows across the plain, and contemplate the immensity of this powerful place. Valley of Fire State Park, Nevada Just an hour's drive from the Las Vegas Strip, Valley of Fire State Park offers a number of impressive rock formations created by shifting sand dunes during the Mesozoic era some 150 million years ago. Of the dozens of beautiful and odd formations you'll find here, perhaps none is stranger than Elephant Rock, where erosion has sculpted a slanted arch resembling an elephant's trunk and body. There is a parking lot less than a mile from Elephant Rock and a walking trail to the site. Come on a summer's day when the sun is blazing down on the red sandstone, and you'll agree that the park was aptly named: It's an oven. The rest of the year offers more comfortable temperatures for doing short, relatively easy hikes with opportunities to see wildlife, petrified wood and petroglyphs. Chimney Rock National Historic Site, Nebraska Chimney Rock was a welcome landmark for pioneers making arduous westward journeys along the Oregon, Mormon and California Trails in the early 19th century. The narrow spire juts from a base of volcanic ash and clay, the remnant of an eruption sharpened into a slender tower by millions of years of erosion. A state-owned buffer zone around the rock has prevented development near the site, allowing visitors to see it rise from the grassy prairie in much the same way as pioneers traveling overland in covered wagons. The Nebraska State Historical Society runs a visitor center with information on the natural and human history associated with the Chimney Rock. Makoshika State Park, Montana This park's strange and beautiful rock formations were formed by the Yellowstone River and various streams that have cut through the rock over millions of years, carving out hoodoos, spires and caprocks. The name Makoshika comes from a Lakota word for badlands. Short walks of less than 2 miles afford great views. Try the Cap Rock Nature Trail, the Diane Gabriel Trail and the Kinney Coulee Trail, located just outside the park, which descends into a canyon with a diversity of hoodoos. This is also dinosaur country: Check out the complete Triceratops skull on display at the visitor center, along with remains of a Tyrannosaurus Rex and a rare Thescelosaurus. Turnip Rock, Michigan The unglamorously named Turnip Rock is a stunning sight, particularly on a warm sunny day when the clear, blue-green waters of Lake Huron sparkle. Wave erosion has caused this flat, tree-covered rock island to taper to a narrow base, around which people swim in the summer months. Turnip Rock is located in a portion of eastern Michigan dubbed the Thumb, where 140 miles of coastline and waterfront towns offer a variety of outdoor activities, including biking, walking and kayaking. It's just offshore from private property inaccessible to the general public, so a good way to approach the rock is by kayak, which can be rented in the small village of Port Austin. Kayaking out in pre-dawn darkness to catch the sun rise behind Turnip Rock is a special treat for experienced kayakers. During winter months, the rock ceases to be an island as the lake ices over, creating another dazzling scene. Devils Tower National Monument, Wyoming It is more imposing than any skyscraper as it comes into view, rising more than 867 feet from a grassy, tree-dotted hillside in northeast Wyoming. Devils Tower is not the remnant of an erupted volcano, but instead a place where magma welled up inside the surrounding rock and then cooled. When the rock eroded away, this cylindrical tower with a texture that resembles bear claw marks remained. Many Native American tribes consider it sacred. There are 8 miles of nature trails around the monument that take visitors through grasslands and ponderosa pine forests at its base. Rangers also lead tours of the monument, and the visitors center offers programs and exhibits about the ecological, geological and cultural features of the site. While Devils Tower is a popular site for climbers, this conflicts with some tribes' beliefs about how a sacred site should be treated. The National Park Service asks climbers to voluntarily refrain from ascending during the month of June. Rest assured that the view of the tower from its base is magnificent. Garden of the Gods, Colorado Springs, Colorado It's not what comes to most people's minds when they picture a city park, but the City of Colorado Springs owns and maintains this grand, nearly 1,300-acre assemblage of red rock cliffs, spires and boulders. The park's most famous formation is Balanced Rock, an enormous boulder that from certain angles appears to defy the laws of physics as it perches precariously on the edge of a ledge. This makes it a favorite photo op, of course. The short, easy Siamese Twins trail also offers impressive views of snow-capped Pikes Peak. Monument Rocks, Kansas It's a bit of a surprise to be driving through farmlands near Lewis, Kansas, and suddenly spot a series of tall chalk towers on the horizon. The collection of rocks is a national landmark that looks something like a Stonehenge on the prairie. However, the monoliths at Monument Rocks were carved not by human hands, but by wind and water after a sea that once covered the region receded. That means the rocks also contain a lot of fossils. Visitors can walk among the towers, but be aware: This is private property, and the rocks are very fragile -- so walk lightly here and don't scramble around or dig among them. Natural Bridge, Virginia Located in the southern end of the Shenandoah Valley, Natural Bridge is not only an impressive natural wonder and a national historic landmark, it is steeped in early American history and immortalized in the works of mid-19th century Hudson River School landscape painters Frederic Edwin Church and David Johnson. Cedar Creek, which feeds the James River, carved out an enormous portal in this more than 200-foot high limestone tower, which was once part of an underground cavern that collapsed through the process of water erosion. (Visitors can still tour nearby caverns, the deepest on the East Coast.) Along with Niagara Falls, Natural Bridge was considered one of early America's great natural wonders. Revered by the Monacan tribe as a sacred place, Natural Bridge was later purchased by Thomas Jefferson, who kept it in his estate for the rest of his life. It remained a privately-owned property until earlier this year, when the State of Virginia announced that the bridge and 1,500 surrounding acres would become a state park property by the end of 2015. It is a scenic starting point from which to explore the Cedar Creek Trail and the Monacan Indian Living History Village. Hawaii Volcanoes National Park The island of Hawaii is one of the few places where it's possible to directly witness how volcanoes create strange formations. Hawaii Volcanoes National Park rises from sea level to 13,677 feet at the Mauna Loa Crater and includes diverse geological features like cinder cones, pit craters and living lava. The two active volcanoes here are Mauna Loa and Kilauea. Check out the Banana Lava Flow at the end of Chain of Craters Road, where you may see lava pouring directly into the ocean, and walk the trail leading through the Thurston Lava Tube, a tunnel formed by hot lava flowing beneath a hardened surface. Another intriguing hike is the 1974 Lava Tree and Keanakakoi Crater Hike, which loops through a forest destroyed by a lava flow that coated the trees -- some of which remain standing, although in much-altered form. A word of caution: Stop at the visitor center before venturing to more active parts of the volcano. Although it's possible to get up close and personal with hot, flowing lava, it is dangerous. Know the risks before you go.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/travel/10-things-mexico/index.html	travel	10 things Mexico does better than anywhere else - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 11:36:36 EDT 2014	Editor's note: This story is part of a series highlighting superlatives of countries and cities around the world. Click here for pieces on Italy, France, the United States, Canada, Taiwan, India, Hong Kong and South Korea, and watch for upcoming installments featuring other countries. (CNN) -- Icy beers, empty beaches. It's a compelling image, but it captures only a feeble percentage of the diversity and excellence that imbues one of the most incredible countries in the world. Here are 10 things Mexico does better than anywhere else. Celebrating death Plenty of cultures do ancestor worship. But who else turns the commemoration of their dearly departed into an annual fiesta of art, food and community? On November 1, aka the Day of the Dead, Mexicans put together ofrendas (shrines) for loved ones who have passed away. Every ofrenda includes pictures of the deceased, food, drinks, skull-shaped candies, candles and cempasuchil, the Aztec marigold or flower of the dead. The belief is that souls of children come back to earth to visit family and friends on November 1 and the souls of adults do the same on November 2. Day of the Dead festivals take place across Mexico. Three of the most elaborate are held in San Andrs Mixquic (in Tlhuac, Mexico City), Patzcuaro, Michoacn and Janitzio, Michoacn. MORE: 10 things South Korea does better than anywhere else Horn sections From symphony orchestras to oompah bands to soul and R&B horn sections, everyone loves a blast of brass. Whereas most countries tend to save their horns for parties and special occasions, however, Mexico kicks out the brass jams on a daily basis. Where else can you hear tubas -- actual tubas! -- laying down bass lines on the radio every hour of the week? It all comes down to bandas, the heart of both traditional and popular genres of Mexican music. Bandas are typically comprised of 10 to 20 musicians who play brass instruments, woodwinds and various percussion. Every Mexico traveler is charmed by mariachi, but bandas are a part of several broader genres, the most characteristic being ranchera, quebradita and corridos. MORE: 7 luxury vacations in Mexico Tequila Mexico's national liquor is a worldwide bar standard, with exports to 96 countries. But don't come to Mexico expecting to impress locals by chugging a syrupy sweet margarita or knocking down manly shots all night. Tequila is meant to be sipped and savored, like fine whiskey, which, as any Mexican will tell you, the best tequila can compete with. You can get a taste of the top-shelf stuff on the Tequila Trail, which includes some of the country's most renowned distilleries. Alternates are The Tequila Express tour operated by Casa Herradura and the Jose Cuervo Express tour. MORE: 10 things the U.S. does better than anywhere else Curing hangovers Mexican parties are notorious for going berserk in the blink of a bleary eye. That, of course, leads to a familiar disaster the following morning. Fortunately, Mexico's kitchens spring to life with the best hangover grub on the planet. Wake up, guzzle water then inhale some spicy chilaquiles, carnitas (pork) or barbacoa (sheep) tacos with hot sauce and plenty of revitalizing grease -- maybe slam a light breakfast beer if you're in really rough shape -- and you'll be back making requests from the band by nightfall. MORE: 10 quirkiest hotels in Latin America Double entendre (Albur) Called "albur" in Spanish, double entendre isn't just a linguistic trick for Mexicans, it's an art form requiring a nimble mind and the ability to convey smart but subtle messages, often laced with sexual or R-rated undertones. Many languages, of course, employ veiled connotations and witty wordplay. But albur is so important in Mexico that there's a national tournament to crown the best alburero. The current champ is Lourdes Ruiz, who's won the competition every year since 1997, defeating men and women. She even teaches albur courses. Still not convinced Mexicans take double entendre more seriously than anyone else? What other country has a day devoted to the subtle intricacies of its language? In Mexico, Albur's Day is celebrated on March 1. Diplomado de Albures Finos (Course of Fine/Classy Albures) classes are held at the Galera Jos Mara Velasco (Peralvillo 55, colonia Morelos, Tepito, Mexico City); free admission; participants receive a diploma. MORE: World's 10 weirdest medical museums Catholicism Vatican City does a pretty fair job as the center of the faith and it has some decent paintings on its ceiling. But its population of 800 souls isn't exactly staggering. Mexico, by contrast, ranks second in the world for number of Catholics (Brazil is first, the Philippines third) and, according to the National Institute of Statistics and Geography of Mexico, 83.9% of the Mexicans are Catholic. Nothing says "Mexican Catholic" like a reverence for the country's seemingly endless manifestations of the Virgin Mary. Which may be why the priest Miguel Hidalgo carried a symbolic flag of Guadalupe when he led the opening stages of the Mexican War of Independence in 1810. Our Lady of Guadalupe is the most venerated Virgin in Mexico, maybe the world. The Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico City is also one of the most important pilgrimage sites in Mexico, reportedly the most visited Marian shrine in the world. Each December 12, about 5 million pilgrims from across Mexico visit the Basilica to thank the Virgin for her favors or to ask for a miracle. Basilica of Our Lady of Gaudalupe, Plaza de las Americas 1, Col. Villa de Guadalupe, Delegacin Gustavo A. Madero, Mexico City; +52 55 5118 0500 MORE: World's best unknown spiritual hike: Japan's Kumano Kodo Quick lunches Known around the country as Vitamin T, tacos, tortas, tamales and tostadas are part of the everyday life. Mexicans are constantly on the go, so it's no wonder puestos and changarros (food stands) can be found on practically every corner. It doesn't matter if you're in the subway, leaving school or taking a lunch break away from the office -- Mexico's streets offer endless options for a fast and delicious meal cooked right in front of you with super-fresh ingredients. Soap operas In 1958, Telesistema Mexicano produced "Senda Prohibida" ("Forbidden Path"), the first Mexican telenovela (soap opera). Fifty-six years later, its successor Televisa has produced a whopping 740 telenovelas. The formula hasn't changed much. A man and woman fall in love but, for tragic reasons, can't be together. After overcoming obstacles they finally get married. Fifteen years after exporting its first soap opera, "Los Ricos Tambien Lloran" ("The Rich Cry Too"), Televisa has found a rich market outside Mexico. Of all countries that export soap operas, Mexico ships out the most, carving niches in other Spanish-speaking countries, as well as China, the Philippines, Israel and Saudi Arabia. (Link in Spanish.) Televisa isn't the only network producing successful telenovelas. TV Azteca and Argos Comunicacin also create top-notch weepers. MORE: 10 things India does better than anywhere else Wrestling costumes Professional wrestling (lucha libre) may be more Hollywood north of the border, and grittier in other countries, but nowhere is it as full of pathos as in Mexico. Those hilarious/spooky masks aren't just fun to look at, they're a major part of the drama. Removing one from an opponent's head is one of the greatest triumphs and most thrilling moments in lucha libre. Matches are held at Arena Mexico in Mexico City on Tuesdays (7:30 p.m.), Fridays (8:30 p.m.) and Sundays (5 p.m.). Tickets can be purchased from Ticketmaster. MORE: World's 50 best beach bars Polite lies Mexicans' deep fear of appearing rude has given us a bred-in-the-bone aversion to uttering the word "no." Instead -- and unfortunately for those unfamiliar with the rules of courtesy here -- we've developed a talent for white lies that allow us to say yes to fulfilling any request. Even if we can't do anything about it. White lies can be as clichd as "the dog ate my homework" or as morbid as "my beloved great aunt has suddenly developed pancreatic cancer." But the granddaddy of polite lies is "ahorita." "Ahorita" literally means "right now," but it's almost never that. When a Mexican tells you they'll do something "ahorita," be prepared to take a seat, because the wait can be long. Think of ahorita as the Mexican art of procrastination -- it's been passed from generation to generation -- a term that can mean anything from "in 10 minutes" to "in three weeks." Ahorita's cousin in crime is "I'm on my way." This really means, "I'm on my way to finishing this TV show, maybe getting off the couch, calling my sister, taking a shower, grabbing a snack and actually leaving home to meet you." You've been warned -- we're great at it! What do you love most about Mexico? Leave a comment.  MORE: Insider Guide: Best of Mexico City Karla Villegas Gama is a Mexican journalist who writes for CNN International, CNNMxico and CNN en Espaol. She's a regular contributor to several Mexican magazines and is the only Latin American journalist and youngest ever to be nominated for the LPGA Global Media Awards. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/21/travel/hotel-indoor-pools/index.html	travel	8 irresistible indoor hotel pools - CNN.com	2014/03/21	Friday Mar 21 10:04:11 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When it comes to hotel pools, the indoor variety has long played second fiddle to their outdoor -- often rooftop -- counterparts. But these days, striking dcor, luxury amenities and stunning settings mean many indoor swimming holes can now challenge even the most glamorous of outdoor pools. And with seasons in tumultuous transition, indoor pools, which are not prey to weather, offer a little bit of an edge. So go ahead and take a dip at these eight luxurious indoor pools. The Water Club at Borgata, Atlantic City This nongaming hotel, which is part of the large Borgata complex in Atlantic City, has three indoor pools (and two more outdoors) so there's really no reason for things to get crowded at any of them. A two-lane lap pool is in the two-floor Immersion spa on the 32nd floor and is set against full-length windows that look out to the Atlantic Ocean, the perfect setup for a water workout. A stunning top-floor pool surrounded by lounge chairs, cabanas and lush foliage telegraphs a more exotic tropical scene than the property's Jersey Shore location. Rooms from $149/night. www.theborgata.com And the world's greatest beach is ... Shangri-La Paris Tucked inside what used to be Napoleon's grandnephew Roland Bonaparte's Parisian home, the 15-by-6-meter, light-bathed pool area (which was previously Bonaparte's stables) extends out to an expansive, plant-lined terrace. All around the pool, which features mosaic tiles inspired to look like Asian carpet, are chic traditional French touches like floral bas relief on the walls and columns surrounding the mezzanine. Rooms from $895/night. www.shangri-la.com Altira Macau On the 16th floor of the tallest building on the island of Taipa is the glamorous indoor infinity pool of the impressively massive gaming complex of Altira Macau. It's easy to see why Forbes once named it one of the best hotel pools in the world: One side faces all of the city with crystal-clear floor-to-ceiling windows. Rooms from $235/night. www.altiramacau.com Hot spots in the world's happiest countries W Verbier, Switzerland W's first ski property is in the heart of the Swiss Alps in the tony town of Verbier. The pool's interior vibe is totally in tune with W's urban aesthetic, with tons of black and leather furnishing that would be right at home at any fabulous pool party. From every corner of the pool, you can look out into the Alps, but if you want a closer vantage point, just swim out into the outdoor area -- the pool is heated -- and breathe in the Alpine air. Rooms from about $1,000/night, double occupancy. www.wverbier.com Tambo del Inka, Peru Tambo del Inka's wellness space's mostly wood, stone and glass construction perfectly marries the property to its natural surroundings in Peru's Sacred Valley. This synergy was the focus of the designers, who used a lot of the local shihuahuaco wood, which grows in the Peruvian rainforest. From the heated pool, you can get glorious views of the Andes, and like W Verbier's setup, you can swim under the partial wall to go from indoor to outdoor. From $455/night. www.libertador.com.pe/en/ Fairmont Le Chteau Montebello, Quebec Built in 1930 for the exclusive private Seigniory Club (which counts international politicians and business tycoons as its members), Le Chteau Montebello's 75-foot-long pool has a real masculine feel, especially because of its log-architecture foundation. The coffered ceiling here adds visual depth to the overall rustic vibe with just a touch of whimsy: The handpainted wooden ceiling is treated to a motif of sea horses and scorpions. The pool has a diving tower, the surrounding area of which has water depth of 12 feet. Rooms from about $175/night. www.fairmont.com The Charles Hotel, Munich One of the largest pools in Munich, at The Charles Hotel, is also one of the most beautiful. The entire spa is outfitted with marble mosaic tiles, mostly in subdued colors punctuated with red flourishes. At the pool itself, a very pretty mosaic of red coral pays homage to 19th century Bavarian royalty, the Wittelsbach family, known for its collection of red coral paraphernalia, from dining cups to jewelry. Rooms from $375/night. www.roccofortehotels.com Waldorf Astoria Chicago The spa at this hotel is done mostly in a stark white, which only further emphasizes the gorgeous rose-design tile-work at the bottom of the pool, giving bathers the feel of swimming over a bed of roses. The 102,600 individually patterned tiles come from Bisazza, an Italian company renowned for its mosaic tile production. Rooms from $345/night. www.waldorfastoriachicagohotel.com  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/27/travel/hotel-traditions/index.html	travel	9 fun U.S. hotel traditions - CNN.com	2014/03/27	Thursday Mar 27 10:10:17 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Lots of hotels have traditions. Nightly happy hours or free check-in snacks aren't that unusual. But the rituals at the U.S. lodgings we've listed here stand out above the crowd in our book, for either their quirkiness or sheer longevity. We think you'll want to join in on the fun. Marco Island Marriott Beach Resort, Golf Club & Spa  Marco Island, Florida The passing from day to night is also a cause for celebration at this southwest Florida beachfront retreat. Each day at sunset, crowds gather by the beach to watch a spectacle that includes the ritual banging of the gong (with one lucky guest chosen to do the honors), the traditional blowing of the conch shell and then a 15-minute performance by a group of Polynesian fire dancers. What better way to start to wind down after a day of fun in the sun? From $189 per night. www.marcoislandmarriott.com The Peabody   Memphis, Tennessee Perhaps the most famous hotel tradition of them all is the twice-daily duck parade that waddles through the lobby of this historic downtown Memphis property, as it has for the past 80 years. At 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. each day, five North American mallards depart their palatial rooftop enclosure, hitch a ride on the elevator (under the guidance of the official duck master) and then strut their stuff across a red carpet and into a large marble fountain in the middle of the lobby, where they swim and splash for a bit until it's time to head back to their lofty penthouse. The Peabody's ducks are so famous, they've appeared in everything from an episode of "Jeopardy!" to one of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issues. From $219 per night. www.peabodymemphis.com The Algonquin  New York This landmark Manhattan lodging also has a resident species its guests have come to know and love: a fetching feline named Matilda. A cat has been a fixture at the Algonquin since a stray wandered into the hotel looking for food and shelter in the 1930s. There have been 10 cats in all, the females all named Matilda and the males all called Hamlet (a moniker that reportedly came from famed actor John Barrymore, who was playing the Shakespearean prince at the time). The current kitty, who was rescued from a local shelter in 2010, is a fluffy, blue-eyed ragdoll who, despite having pretty much the run of the place, often opts to hang out by the front desk, chilling in the lobby's plush chairs and greeting people as they check in. From $269 per night. www.algonquinhotel.com St. Regis Atlanta  Atlanta The nightly tradition at this upscale Atlanta accommodation certainly has a lot of pop. That's because every day at approximately 6 p.m., either the hotel's wine butler or the general manager holds court outside the Wine Room and ceremoniously sabers a bottle of champagne to help celebrate evening's arrival. The practice of opening a bottle of bubbly with a military-style sword dates to the days of Napoleon and became a ritual here from the moment the doors opened in 2009. Wine master Jennifer Sollinger can even offer tips on how to saber your own bottle using an ordinary chef's knife. From $650 per night. www.stregisatlanta.com Hyatt Regency Lost Pines Resort and Spa  Lost Pines, Texas Encompassing a 405-acre swath along the banks of the Colorado River just outside Austin, this resort makes full use of the gorgeous Central Texas landscape, presenting guests with the opportunity to participate in everything from kayaking and horseback riding to archery and trap shooting. One of the most popular on-site activities, however, is the weekly meet and greet with the resort's bovine mascots, a pair of longhorn steers named T-Bone and Ribeye. On Sundays from 10 a.m. to noon, guests who wander over to the Riversong Lawn hitching post can saddle up atop the beasts for a unique photo op that makes the perfect Lone Star State souvenir. From $199 per night. www.lostpines.hyatt.com Le Pavillon  New Orleans The Big Easy may be known for menu items like beignets and jambalaya, but peanut butter and jelly sandwiches are what visitors look forward to at this historic property known affectionately as the Belle of New Orleans. Ever since 1988, when a hungry guest got a late-night hankering for the nostalgic nosh, the hotel has put out a complimentary spread of PB&J sandwiches along with ice-cold milk and toasty hot chocolate. The snacking begins each evening at 10 p.m. From $159 per night. www.lepavillon.com  Griswold Inn  Essex, Connecticut Speaking of free food, this 238-year-old hotel, which is one of the oldest continuously operated inns in the country, is home to a longstanding but little-known tradition that rewards anyone arriving on horseback or via horse and carriage a gratis lunch at one of its three dining venues. One local resident even has his own time-honored tradition of showing up with horse and buggy for his comp meal every two years after hitting the voting booth on Election Day. From $115 a night. www.griswoldinn.com  Sheraton Maui Resort & Spa  Lahaina, Hawaii Centuries ago, Hawaiian royalty called this area of Maui home, including Chief Kahekili, who ruled over the land from 1749 to 1794. He was known for mastering the ancient sport of Lele Kawa, which involved jumping feet-first into the ocean from rocky perches up to 400 feet high. In honor of the man known as the King of the Spirit Leap, the Sheraton Maui presents a nightly retelling of his story, which begins with a loincloth-clad warrior lighting torches set at the edge of a lofty promontory and proceeding with a lei offering to the ocean below before taking a daring plunge -- this time headfirst -- into the surf. From $359 per night. www.sheraton-maui.com Westin St. Francis  San Francisco As a one-of-a-kind amenity for its guests, this luxury property on popular Union Square washes every single coin that makes its way into its coffers. The custom began in 1938, when the general manager decided that all silver coins should be cleaned so as to keep the female guests' white gloves from getting soiled. Arnold Batliner, who was the official coin washer until he retired in the late 1980s, is said to have laundered an estimated $17 million in change throughout his tenure. Today, the job belongs to Rob Holsen, who spends an hour or so each week running the coins through a silver-burnishing machine in a small room behind the registration desk. From $199 a night. www.westinstfrancis.com    
http://www.cnn.com/2013/12/02/travel/15-lesser-known-ski-resorts/index.html	travel	15 lesser-known ski resorts to check out this winter - CNN.com	2013/12/02	Monday Dec 2 09:51:37 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Whistler, Chamonix, Aspen -- the best known winter sports resorts have become that for a reason. Not only are the following places worthy of a December-to-February vacation, some are significantly cheaper. Lech Zrs am Arlberg, Vorarlberg, Austria The small resort of Lech-Zrs is about to get bigger. As of this winter, it'll be connected to nearby Warth-Schrcken by a two-kilometer-long ropeway ski lift, meaning visitors can access 190 kilometers of trails and 47 lifts. The huge range of accommodations runs from five-star Hotel Almhof Schneider, in the shadow of the Schlegelkopf peak, to the quaint and quirky Pension Astoria, a short walk from the town center. Lech-Zrs am Arlberg, Voralberg, Austria; +43 5583 2245 Hotel Edelweiss, Manni & Seppi Strolz, Familie Strolz, Zrs 79, Austria; +43 5583 2662; from $88 per room per night More: 10 of the most beautiful ice skating rinks Sierra Nevada, Andalucia, Spain  The beautiful Sierra Nevada is Spain's most popular ski area -- it has a collection of resorts with more than 104 kilometers of trails and 116 ski runs. It's located 32 kilometers from the city of Granada. This is the sunniest ski region in Europe, although being located at 2,100 meters (6,889 feet) and with a top station at 3,300 meters (10,826) feet, it's known for being a snow-sure resort -- last winter it opened from November until mid-May. Visitors can rent an apartment, such as those at Apartahotel Trevenque (located next to the resort's main gondola), which has kitchenettes and direct access to the slopes. Sierra Nevada, Andalucia, Spain; +34 902 70 80 90 Meli Sierra Nevada, Plaza de Pradollano, Sierra Nevada 18196, Spain; +34 958 480400; from $145 per room per night Red Mountain, British Columbia Red Mountain resort in British Columbia is another resort about to double in size, thanks to the development of the adjacent Grey Mountain. Skiers who take the chair lift to the top are rewarded with spectacular views and 360-degree skiing off the peak. The development of Grey Mountain gives Red Mountain resort a total of 2,682 ski-able acres, putting it in the top 20 North American ski resorts in terms of terrain size. The Slalom Creek apartments are the resort's newest accommodations, with fireplaces and private Jacuzzi tubs. Red Mountain, British Columbia; +1 800 663 0105 Rossland Motel, 721 Hwy 22, British Columbia, Canada; 250 362 7218; from $55 per room per night More: 13 scary-but-awesome viewing platforms Sunday River, Maine This Maine resort has a number of developments in the pipeline this winter, including a brand new, 15-acre terrain park designed by Sochi-bound free-ski athlete Simon Dumont, and 60 acres of glades that have been opened for tree skiing. With 820 acres spread across eight interconnected mountain peaks, Sunday River is now the second largest ski resort in New England. The Grand Summit Resort Hotel and Jordan Grand Resort Hotel are the resort's two most popular hotels. Grand Summit's new restaurant, Camp, will open this winter. Sunday River, Maine; +1 207 824 3000 Jordan Grand Hotel, 27 Grand Avenue, Newry, Maine, New England, US; 207 824 5000; from $59 per room per night Sugar Bowl, Lake Tahoe, California Sugar Bowl already has some of America's best tree runs, but this winter several developments are set to transform the area. A new chairlift will provide advanced skiers with easy access to the challenging Crow's Face and Strawberry Fields areas, previously reached only by hiking. The new lift will also connect Sugar Bowl to the largest cross-country ski resort in North America, Royal Gorge. Sugar Bowl's Lodge is one of the coziest hotels you'll find in a ski resort and is accessed via gondola. Sugar Bowl, Lake Tahoe, California; +1 530 426 9000 Truckee Donner Lodge, 10527 Cold Stream Rd, Truckee, California; 530-582-9999; from $99 per room per night Les Orres, Hautes-Alpes, France Les Orres is one of the newer French resorts. Built in 2008 with an extensive network of wide, groomed runs and childcare facilities, it's a destination for families. It has more than 100 kilometers of ski-able terrain, and its location, in the middle of a forest overlooking the Serre-Ponon lake, makes it one of the more spectacular places to get a winter snow fix. There's not a huge range of accommodation in Les Orres, but La Portette has 26 spacious bedrooms, direct access to the piste and stunning mountain views. Les Orres, Aix-en-Provence, France; +33 4 92 44 01 61 L'Ancolie, Centre Station, Les Orres, France; +33 492 44 19 20; from $107 per room per night More: 10 best cities for a winter vacation Baqueira Beret, Lleida, Spain The Spanish royal family are fans of this ski area in the region of Lleida in western Catalonia. Although small, the resort has something for snowboarders and skiers of all abilities: there are five green runs, 34 blue slopes, 26 red runs and six black slopes. Catalonia is one of the few places in Europe where heli-skiing is legal and there are some fantastic back-country areas. In 2014, the resort will be holding various events to mark its 50th anniversary. Accommodation includes luxury offerings such as the five-star Val de Neu hotel (a favorite with the Spanish royal family) or more affordable Melia Royal Tanau, a stylish, slope-side hotel. Baqueira Beret, Lleida, Spain; +34 902 41 54 15  Val de Neu, Calle Perimetrau S/N Baqueira Beret, 25598 Baqueira, Lleida, Spain; +34 973 635 000; from $350 per room per night Ischgl, Tyrol, Austria There are a number of reasons to visit this Austrian resort in 2014, but the pice de rsistance is a new, $24-billion cable car that will open up nearly untouched snow fields below the Piz Val Gronda peak -- in the past, skiers and snowboarders have had to be towed to the area by snowmobile. Ischgl is already the biggest interconnected ski area in Tyrol, with more than 238 kilometers of runs. Accommodation in Ischgl includes a number of hotels within meters of the centrally located Silvretta cable car. Smaller hotels on the outskirts of the resort are equally accessible, thanks to an efficient shuttle bus system. Ischgl, Tyrol, Austria; +43 5099 0100 Alpenhotel Ischglerhof, Dorfstrasse 92, A-6561 Ischgl, Austria, +43 5444 5330; from $163 per room per night Jay Peak, Vermont Jay Peak gets the most snow of any resort in eastern North America, and has a huge range of terrain. Almost all of the lodging is ski-in, ski-out. This year, the resort is spending $43 million on improvements, including a new 80,000-square-foot hotel and base lodge. Accommodations include the Slopeside Condominiums on the edge of the resort. With a new indoor water park, the Hotel Jay and Conference Center is suitable for families. Jay Peak, Vermont; +1 802 988 2611 Hotel Jay & Conference Center, 830 Jay Peak Road, Jay Peak Vermont, US; 802 988 2611; from $101 per room per night More: World's 12 best shopping cities Myoko Kogen, Niigata Prefecture, Japan This beautiful resort is a great starting point for those who've never skied in Japan. There are no nightclubs or bars, just lots of snow -- by mid-season there are usually around four meters. It's a four-hour train ride from Tokyo. The resort, Japan's oldest, dating to 1911, is surrounded by an astounding 25 ski areas. Like most Japanese resorts, Myoko Kogen offers traditional and Western accommodation. Lodge Beetle offers traditional Japanese accommodations high above the main resort -- the owners will personally collect you from the resort on their snowmobiles. Myoko Kogen, Myoko-shi, Niigata-ken, Japan +81 80 8817 4888 Canadian House Hotel, 949-2106, Taguchi-1394, Myoko, Japan; +81 255 87 2186; from $24 per room per night Arosa, Graubnden, Switzerland Davos, St Moritz and Klosters are some of Graubnden's most famous resorts, but they're also the most expensive. For equally fantastic skiing at half the price, there's nearby Arosa. At 2,653 meters (8,704 feet) above sea level, it's one of Switzerland's most snow-sure resorts. This winter a new cable car will connect Arosa with the nearby resort of Lenzerheide. The hotels here are also some of the prettiest you'll find in a ski resort, whether it's the Alpensonne, with views over surrounding mountains, or the Gspan hotel, a quaint wooden cabin that, its website claims, was built in 1621.  Arosa, Arosa, Switzerland; +41 81 378 70 20;  Gspan Arosa, +41 (81) 377 14 94; from $99 per night Aletsch Arena, Switzerland The Aletsch Arena is located on the edge of Swiss Alps Jungfrau-Aletsch, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It comprises three car-free villages (Riederalp, Bettmeralp, Fiescheralp), all connected by lifts. There are 11 terrain parks and around 100 kilometers of trails. In Bettmeralp, Hotel Alpfrieden is a beautiful, stone-clad hotel, loved by return guests for its extensive wine list. The Art Furrer hotel in Riederalp is centrally located and just a short walk from the ski school. Switzerland's famous ski train means the resort is equally well connected to Bern, Basel and Zurich. Aletsch Arena, Valais, Switzerland, +41 27 928 41 31 Slalom Hotel, CH-3992 Bettmeralp, Switzerland; +41 27 927 17 87; from $95 per room per night  More: Europe's best budget ski resorts Schladming, Schladming-Dachstein, Austria Skiers and snowboarders flock to this former mining town for the huge range of terrain, which includes some tough black runs, including the slopes used for the annual World Cup night slalom. The World Ski Championships were held here last winter, and as a result, the resort now has several new and incredibly fast lifts. An hour drive from Salzburg, the town dates to medieval times and is packed with small, family-run cafes, shops and aprs-ski bars. One of the most beautiful hotels is the Hotel Schtterhof. It's well-connected to the slopes and has one of the resort's largest spas. Schladming, Styria, Austria; +43 36 87/233 10 Hotel Schtterhof, Wiesenweg 140, 8971 Rohrmoos-Untertal, Austria; +43 3687 61205 Voss, Hordaland, Norway Norway might not be famous for its alpine skiing, but the northern location of Voss is what makes it the country's most popular ski resort. Unsurprisingly, cross-country skiing is incredibly popular here and although the resort is on the small side, it's ideal for families. There are 19 runs, two terrain parks and three large ski areas for children. There are several hotels to choose from, but the beautiful Myrkdalen Cabins offer great access to the slopes and spectacular views over the entire resort, just a 90-minute train journey from Bergen. Voss, Hordaland, Norway; +47 406 17 700 Myrkdalen Cabins, Myrkdalen, 5713 Vossestrand, +47 56 52 30 40 Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Bavaria, Germany  This severely underestimated German ski resort, a 90-minute train journey from Munich, was the venue for the FIS Alpine World Ski Championships in 2011. The resort's ski area covers three mountains and offers world class skiing. Experienced skiers and snowboarders should head to the high altitude Alpspitze area, which lies above the tree line. This is also the location of one of the world's most spectacular viewing platforms, AlpspiX, which juts out from the mountain and from which visitors can peer a thousand meters into the depths below. Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Bavaria, Germany; +49 8821 180 700 Hotel Bavaria, Partnachstrasse 51 82467, Garmisch-Partenkirchen; +49 (0)8821 3466; from $93 per night More: 7 swanky U.S. ski hotels  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/30/travel/best-affordable-island-hotels/index.html	travel	Best affordable island hotels - CNN.com	2013/10/30	Wednesday Oct 30 08:26:30 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Too often the daydream of lounging under palm trees on some enchanted island is punctured by the reality of sky-high hotel and resort prices. But there's no need to despair or settle for some landlocked compromise. We've pinpointed affordable island hotels that span the globe, from destinations usually reserved for big spenders to others barely on the radar of most travelers. All of our favorites have room rates that start below $200some as low as $70. And these hotels have more going for them than price point, whether it's an oceanfront location or cozy charm. Whatever your idea of paradise, we think you'll agree that every gem on our list deserves treasure island status. Lefkes Village Hotel, Paros, Greece Part of the Cyclades, Paros delivers all the archetypal Greek island drawswhitewashed churches, bougainvillea-festooned houses, panoramic Aegean viewswithout the high prices of neighboring hot spots Santorini and Mykonos. Case in point: this 20-room contemporary hotel in the quiet mountain village of Lefkes, with a swimming pool, a small museum, and a tavern that uses ingredients gathered from the surrounding fruit trees and gardens. From $70. La Veranda Resort, Vietnam The island of Phu Quoc (the country's largest) is firmly on the tourist radar these days, yet it still retains the serene small-town essence that first drew intrepid travelers to its balmy shores. This elegant two-story resort radiates French colonial-era charm: airy rooms with net-draped beds with either lush tropical garden or ocean views, a dining room serving Pan Pacific cuisine on a long veranda beneath lazy ceiling fans, and a clubby lounge bar with scarlet walls. From $140. Travel + Leisure: Best U.S. cities for affordable getaways Copamarina Beach Resort & Spa, Puerto Rico Copamarina occupies prime oceanfront real estate on Puerto Rico's less-explored southern coast, complete with a palm-fringed beach and 20 acres of tropical gardens. It's a setting that more than makes up for any style shortcomings. Take advantage of the recently updated on-site spa, two seafood-oriented restaurants, and several pools, or venture farther afield. The historic seaside town of Gunica is within walking distance; nearby adventures include bird-watching in Dry Forest Reserve and snorkeling by tiny Gilligan's Island. From $145. Fairbanks House, Amelia Island, Florida Amelia Island combines the Spanish moss-draped romance of the South with a laid-back tropical ambience. And this boutique Italianate-style villa is the perfect base from which to take it all in. The historic building (est. 1885) displays all manner of over-the-top details: dormers, bay windows, massive chimneys, balustraded balconies, and a 15-foot tower. Rooms feature canopy or four-poster beds, fireplaces, and bathrooms that will thrill any nostalgics yearning to soak in a Victorian-era claw-foot tub. From $180. Travel + Leisure: Best affordable all-inclusive resorts Fishers' Loft, Newfoundland, Canada Overlooking Trinity Bay and the harbor of Ship Cove, Fishers' Loft is found on one of Atlantic Canada's most fascinating, idiosyncratic islands. Designed in the clapboard-and-shingles style of the late 1800s, this cozy inn evokes Newfoundland's seafaring past; guests have the chance to spot whales and icebergs out the mullioned windows, depending on the season. Meals are sourced with ingredients gathered from the inn's greenhouse and gardens. From $99. Auberge Seraphine, St. Lucia A big hit with honeymooners, the lush Caribbean island of St. Lucia can also take a big hit on your wallet, thanks to its slew of high-end resorts. Not so at this sweet family-run hotel near Castries on the northwest coast. There's no beach here, but the auberge has a lovely pool and is on sailboat-packed Vielle Bay, close to a large lily pad--filled pond popular with hundreds of white egrets. Snag a table at the on-site restaurant for seafood risotto and lobster. From $125. Rosario Resort & Spa, Orcas Island, Washington For an island getaway with a dose of history, consider this quaint 40-acre resort on the largest of Washington State's San Juan Islands, overlooking East Sound and Cascade Bay. Rosario shares land with Moran Mansion, the magnificent former home of shipbuilder and onetime Seattle mayor Robert Moran. It's now a museum featuring archival photographs, model ships, and an impressive collection of Arts and Crafts furnishings amassed by Moran. From $99. Travel + Leisure: Best places to spend Christmas Villa Serena, Dominican Republic Word has spread about the Saman peninsula, an unspoiled stretch of coastline in the island's northeast corner, far from the madding crowds of the Puerto Cana resort region. Part of the peninsula's appeal is its bevy of stylish small hotels, among them, Villa Serena on Las Galeras Bay. It has all the classic Caribbean colonial features -- Palladian arches, wooden shutters, acres of white gingerbread trimset in sprawling tropical gardens just steps from the sand. Daily alfresco yoga sessions overlooking the ocean are a highlight. From $110. Sangat Island Dive Resort, Palawan, Philippines It's not hard to understand why T+L readers voted Palawan their favorite island in the 2013 World's Best survey; the lightly populated archipelago shows off the sublime underwater richness of the Philippines. After diving or snorkeling in the surrounding coral reef, retreat back to your cottage at this low-key resort at the foot of towering limestone cliffs. Simple tropical furnishingsbamboo floors and walls, bright textiles, and terraces slung with hammockskeep the focus on the outrageously beautiful ocean views. From $85. La Tosca, Capri, Italy Dreams are made of this: a charming family-run hotel in one of Italy's most upscale destinations for around $100 a night. Whitewashed La Tosca also occupies a lofty position, providing glimpses of the Faraglioni rocks from the breakfast terrace. Rooms are simply furnished, with vibrant textiles, tiled floors, and windows opening onto either the gardens or the Mediterranean. It's within strolling distance of the island's famous Piazzetta, the Gardens of Augustus, and the Monastery of St. Giacomo. From $100 (closed November--March). See all of the best affordable island hotels  Planning a getaway? Don't miss Travel + Leisure's guide to the World's Best Hotels  Copyright 2012 American Express Publishing Corporation. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/05/travel/best-hotel-caribbean/index.html	travel	8 great hotel perks in the Caribbean - CNN.com	2014/02/05	Wednesday Feb 5 02:15:18 EST 2014	(CNN) -- The Caribbean is a big place. For rookies and veterans, it can be tough to know which island to visit and which place to stay. If deals and perks play into your vacation decision making, the unexpected bonuses at these hotels -- from free kayaking lessons to massages overlooking an underground lake -- might help make up your mind. $100 resort credit (Westin St. John Resort & Villas, St. John) At this posh property astride a crescent-shaped beach on Great Cruz Bay, guests who volunteer a few hours of their time can earn a $100 resort credit good at any of the hotel's facilities. Through a program offered by the Friends of the Virgin Island National Park, interested guests are transported to the nearby park, where they help maintain trails and ruins or pick up debris on the beach. In return they receive a $100 credit to play with back to the hotel. Westin St. John Resort & Villas, 300 Chocolate Hole, St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands; +1 866 716 8108; $229-$569 per night; the hotel is currently undergoing a renovation, so some features may be temporarily closed or relocated Free water sports lessons (Regent Palms, Turks and Caicos) This all-suite hotel on stunning Grace Bay Beach has amenities galore, including an infinity pool with Wi-Fi and complimentary loaner bikes. Our favorite perk is the sailing, paddle boarding and kayaking lessons included in the resort fee. Already a player? Then you'll appreciate that the equipment is free to use, as well. Regent Palms, Princess Drive, Grace Bay Beach, Providenciales, Turks and Caicos; +649 946 8666; from $499 per night Aqua butler (Ritz-Carlton, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) The crystalline waters of the Caribbean are right outside the doorstep at the Ritz-Carlton, Grand Cayman. Guests can take advantage of the location when they nab one the hotel's free aqua beds or aqua lounges that float in the surf just off the beach. Serving you at your watery perch is the aqua butler. You can pick up the nearby coconut phone to request delivery of complimentary sunscreen and magazines or food and drinks. Ritz-Carlton, Grand Cayman, Seven Mile Beach, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands; +345 943 9000; from $399 per night Outdoor movies (Grand Lucayan, The Bahamas) This beachfront hotel located 70 miles off the coast of Florida (which, of course, is also technically in the Atlantic, although the regions are often lumped together) has plenty of diversions, from two 18-hole championship golf courses to a Vegas-style casino. The best feature may be the movies shown on a big screen by the pool on Friday and Saturday nights. Popcorn is provided. Grand Lucayan, Sea Horse Road, Lucaya, Grand Bahama Island, The Bahamas; +1 877 434 2996; from $209 per night Spa in a cave (Grotto Bay Beach Resort, Bermuda) How often can you brag about a massage in a 500,000-year-old cave? For an additional $20, guests of Grotto Bay's Natura Spa can pay to have their rubdown among the ancient stalagmites and stalactites of Serenity Cave, where the treatment table overlooks a crystal clear underground lake. Grotto Bay Beach Resort, 11 Blue Hole Hill, Bailey's Bay, Bermuda; +441 293 8333; from $209 per night Well-stocked library (Carlisle Bay, Antigua) Forgot to pack your iPad? No worries. Carlisle Bay is among the growing number of hotels to house a library on site. Decked out with fiber optic lighting that changes color throughout the evening, the cozy room has a couple of couches along with bookshelves crammed with several hundred books. Choices range from classics such as "Treasure Island" and "The Lady in the Lake" to miscellaneous selections like "The Superior Person's Book of Words" and "How to Be a Bad Birdwatcher." The library offers a paperback swap. Carlisle Bay, Old Road St. John's, Carlisle Bay, Antigua; +268 484 0000; call for rates Hand-rolled cigars (Westin Puntacana Resort & Club, Dominican Republic) This swanky 200-room resort on the scenic far eastern end of the Dominican Republic is brand new but already drawing rave reviews. One of the features most often hailed is the Cigar Bar & Lounge, which not only stocks local and exotic smokes, but a selection of premium rums and Dominican coffees. A specialist is on hand to hand-roll cigars in front of guests. Westin Puntacana Resort & Club, five minutes south of Punta Cana International Airport, Playa Blanca, Punta Cana, Dominican Republic; +809 959 2262; from $308 per night Versailles-inspired gardens (One&Only Ocean Club, Bahamas) This former private estate is postcard pretty, particularly the ornate terraced garden that leads to the equally picturesque beach. Modeled after the grounds of the famous Chteau de Versailles, the garden includes elegant statuary carved from Carrera marble and an actual 12th-century Augustinian cloister, purchased from William Randolph Hearst. It was transported from France and reassembled on site piece by piece. One&Only Ocean Club, 1 Casino Drive, Paradise Island, Bahamas; +866 552 0001 or +954 809 2150; call for rates  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/12/24/travel/industrial-chic-hotels/index.html	travel	7 cool industrial-chic hotels - CNN.com	2013/12/24	Tuesday Dec 24 09:54:47 EST 2013	(CNN) -- While there's plenty to be said in favor of the new, sometimes the best things stem from a solid original foundation. Industrial structures like warehouses and factories are finding new incarnations as luxury hotels, challenging designers to get creative with old bones and drawing in guests who seek a sense of history and character. In New York, the Wythe Hotel (Brooklyn) and the Refinery Hotel (Manhattan) were resurrected from a cooperage and a hat factory respectively. In Istanbul, the brand-new Shangri-La Bosphorus brings opulence to the banks of the river in the form of elegant rooms converted from a former tobacco warehouse. And the remote Fabriken Furillen, once a limestone refinery, is an isolated 16-room property on a Swedish island, where neighbors are few but the scenery is stunning. Here are seven cutting-edge hotels that come from humble origins. Your most spectacular travel photos 1888 Hotel, Sydney One of Sydney's trendiest accommodations, 1888 Hotel opened its doors in July, welcoming guests to its 90-room boutique property in the Pyrmont neighborhood. The guest rooms feature 10-foot ceilings; windows and desks constructed from recycled timber; and a lobby, an atrium and a bar studded with reclaimed wooden beams and exposed brick. Despite the vintage details, the five-story hotel takes a modern approach to technology: Each room comes with an iPad and Instagram users with more than 10,000 followers are entitled to one complimentary night's stay. The staff wears denim work shirts in a cheeky nod to the heritage-listed building's previous life as a woolshed. Rooms start at $150; 139 Murray St.; 61-2/8586-1888; 8hotels.com. Fabriken Furillen, Gotland, Sweden While most former industrial buildings are found in ports or in cities, Fabriken Furillen is a rural outlier on the island of Gotland, off Sweden's southeastern coast. Once a limestone refinery, the 18-room hotel (including two cabins) is a haven of sharp-edged Scandinavian design in a stunningly scenic -- almost lunar -- setting. Rooms are painted in white or gray and feature luxury beds, Bang & Olufsen technology (some rooms have televisions, others have radios; the cabins are electronics-free) and bucolic touches like sheepskin rugs and blankets made from Gotland wool. The restaurant serves simple, elegant meals made with island-grown vegetables and herbs. Rooms start at $315; Rute Furillen, 624 58 Lrbro; 46-498/223-040; furillen.com. Top U.S. spots to visit in 2014 Wythe Hotel, Brooklyn, New York Brooklyn is home to plenty of reclaimed industrial spaces, but the Wythe Hotel is one of the newest (it opened in May 2012) and chicest. Floor-to-ceiling windows in many rooms look straight out onto the Manhattan skyline over the East River, letting in copious amounts of sunlight to play off the exposed-brick walls and custom-made wallpaper. Original cast-iron columns, masonry and 13-foot-high timber ceilings speak to the building's history as a cooperage. The concrete floors are heated (a detail the former tenants might have appreciated as they rolled out barrels on the Williamsburg waterfront); the furniture (beds were constructed from pine taken from the ceilings) and artwork is made locally. Rooms start at $180; 80 Wythe Ave.; 718-460-8000; wythehotel.com. Refinery Hotel, New York A century-old neo-Gothic building in the heart of New York's Garment District, the Refinery started out as a millinery factory. It is now an elegant, eclectic 12-story hotel with amazing structural features and plenty of luxurious amenities. Opened in May 2013, it features lobby details (a 72-foot custom-designed runner, vaulted ceilings, plaid-patterened finished-walnut walls) that evoke an old New York feel. In the rooms, steel-and-leather headboards reinforce the industrial ambiance, while wooden bedside lockers add a touch of nostalgia. On occasion the hotel's loading dock becomes Hatbox, a gallery space hosting art exhibits and fashion shows. Rooms start at $460; 63 W. 38th St.; 646-664-0310; refineryhotelnewyork.com. Departures: World's best design hotels Sir Albert, Amsterdam Though Sir Albert may have a fictional host at its helm (the gentleman of its name is a made-up character), the hotel has a very real former life as a 19th-century diamond factory. Despite the space's original connection to gems, the decor has a distinctly masculine feel, thanks to brown curtains, dark wood furniture in the guest rooms and cowskin-patterned cubes for sitting in the study -- a cozy public space with deep leather armchairs and well-stocked bookshelves. Plenty of bright northern sunshine streams in through the high windows in most rooms, which harkens back to the legacy of the diamond workers, who needed the best possible light to practice their craft. Rooms start at $270; Albert Cuypstraat 2-6; 31-20/305-3020; siralberthotel.com. Departures: High-design airport terminals Waterhouse, Shanghai Formerly a dockyard warehouse on the Huangpu River, Waterhouse is now a high-design hotel. While plenty of its earliest features have been preserved -- the window frames are original metal and the wall behind the reception desk looks positively ancient -- the refurbished concept (by the lavishly praised Neri & Hu Design and Research Office) is a modern masterpiece. Playing with conventions of internal and external spaces, the design allows guests to peek into private quarters from public areas and vice versa. Gloriously sleek and minimalist, the 19 rooms contrast nicely with views onto the neon-lit Bund, which is crammed with unconventionally shaped skyscrapers. Rooms start at $195; Maojiayuan Road 1-3, Huangpu District; 86-21/6080-2988; waterhouseshanghai.com. Departures: Spectacular casino hotels Shangri-La Bosphorus, Istanbul Originally a tobacco warehouse in the 1930s, this Shangri-La property opened in May 2013 with the largest guestrooms in Istanbul. Situated on the European side of the city, with many rooms overlooking the Bosphorus Strait, the hotel pays homage to the opulence of its Bosphorus neighbor, Dolmabahe Palace. Chandeliers glitter, specially commissioned artwork dazzles, and Turkish-marble bathrooms come stocked with Bulgari bath products. The hotel's architects even restored the Neoclassical faade of the original warehouse. For unparalleled views, check out the Shangri-La Suite, which has three private terraces and overlooks the Old City (the Asian bank of the strait) and the Bosphorus Bridge. Rooms start at $740; Sinanpasa Mah, Hayrettin Iskelesi Sok, No.1, Besiktas; 90-212/275-8888; shangri-la.com. See more industrial-chic hotels   2010 American Express Publishing Corporation. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2013/11/17/travel/underwater-room/index.html	travel	Sleeping with the fish: Underwater hotel room opens off Tanzania coast - CNN.com	2013/11/17	Sunday Nov 17 06:47:34 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Notch this up to Swedes and another ridiculously cool, innovative design. This latest effort can be found off an African island and straightaway is placed high on that list of 'amazing hotels I wish i could get to' many travelers have. Just off the coast of Tanzania, The Manta Resort on Pemba Island has added a beautiful, other-worldly underwater bedroom to their original 16-room offering. The new 'digs' opened for business this month, designed by Swedish company Genberg Underwater Hotels. They are the brains behind the The Utter Inn, an underwater room in the middle of a Swedish lake which was also one of our 15 unusual places to spend the night. Lying approximately 250 meters offshore, the latest underwater structure is a three-story affair, with a rooftop deck, a bathroom and a lounge area at sea level and finally the bedroom downstairs, with the fish. At night, spotlights under the windows attract and illuminate squid and octopus -- a more reclusive crowd than the daytime sea life. The resort is popular with divers owing to the coral reef around the island. Underwater Room, The Manta Resort, Pemba Island, Tanzania; +255 776 718 852; $1500 per night for a two-person stay, $900 per night for singles  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/09/travel/mansion-hotels/index.html	travel	8 elegant U.S. mansion hotels - CNN.com	2014/01/09	Thursday Jan 9 10:52:06 EST 2014	(CNN) -- Ever dreamed of living in a grand house with 30-foot ceilings, a fireplace in every room and a backyard so big you need a map to find your way around? For the cost of a night's stay you can, at these landmark estate hotels that were once the posh private residences of wealthy politicians, cotton barons and the like. Here are eight magnificent mansion hotels across the United States that were once home sweet home. The Chanler at Cliff Walk  Newport, Rhode Island New York Congressman John Winthrop Chanler and his wife Margaret Astor Ward's 1873 home was the first to be built on what is now the famed Cliff Walk that runs along Newport's eastern shoreline. Having hosted dignitaries like Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and President Theodore Roosevelt over the years, its rooms are now open to anyone who wants to experience its Gilded Age grandeur. Each of the 20 guest rooms captures a different theme or historical period, including English Tudor and Empire. From $229 per night. www.thechanler.com Wentworth Mansion  Charleston, South Carolina Dating to 1886, this 21-room, four-story property in historic downtown Charleston was built for wealthy Southern cotton merchant Francis Silas Rodgers, his wife and their 13 children. Though it's been totally restored, guests will see many of the original details installed by architect Daniel G. Wayne, including Tiffany stained glass, pressed tin ceilings, crystal chandeliers and carved marble mantles. The former stables now serve as the hotel's 1,000-square-foot spa, and the one-time carriage house has been converted into its four-star dining room. From $390 per night. www.wentworthmansion.com Vacancy: 10 abandoned hotels Castle Hotel & Spa  Tarrytown, New York Head 30 minutes north of Manhattan and you'll come across this historic property that was once the residence of noted newspaperman and playwright General Howard Carroll. Carrollclifffe, as it was called upon completion in 1910, featured 45 rooms and was modeled after medieval fortifications in Wales, Scotland and Ireland. Though totally refurbished in early 2013, the integrity and Old World ambiance remain, visible in details like the intricately carved wooden stairways, hand-hewn oak beams and leaded-glass windows. For the full-on castle experience, reserve one of the tower suites, complete with wood-burning fireplace and turret alcove. From $320 per night. www.castlehotelandspa.com Keswick Hall at Monticello  Keswick, Virginia You'd never know it today, but the estate's historic 1912 wing, originally christened Villa Crawford for its first owner, fell into serious decay and was boarded up for many years. That is until 1990, when Sir Bernard Ashley (the widower of famed designer Laura Ashley) bought the 600-acre manor with the intention of turning it into a "country house hotel" fit for a king. His subsequent $25 million makeover both modernized and upgraded the property, while maintaining its fundamental structure and design, and then he added antiques and artworks throughout from his own private collection. From $495 per night. www.keswick.com 8 very old sites in the New World Dolce Hayes Mansion  San Jose, California Flush with riches from iron ore mining enterprises in Michigan and Wisconsin, Mary Hayes Chynoweth and her two sons had this expansive Mediterranean triple residence built in the early 1900s. The City of San Jose purchased the manse in 1985 and later turned it into a conference center, adding the 214 guestrooms now available for nightly guests. Take the self-guided walking tour of the property (pamphlets are available) and you'll spy historic photos and visit various rooms where the family once dined, entertained, slept and attended daily worship services. From $149 per night. www.hayesmansion.com Castle Hill Resort and Spa  Cavendish, Vermont This lavish English Cotswold-style estate nestled amid the verdant Green Mountains was once the home of Allen Miller Fletcher, who, among other accomplishments, served as governor of Vermont from 1912 to 1915. It was not only the first home in the state to be fully wired for electricity, but also the first to boast its own elevator. Guests who check in here will see many of the property's other authentic design features, from the wallpaper in the staircase that dates back to 1905 to the gneiss stone that was quarried onsite to construct the exterior. From $279 per night. www.castlehillresort.com  Wilburton Inn  Manchester Village, Vermont About an hour southwest of the Castle Hill Resort and Spa is another mansion hotel, the Wilburton Inn. Sitting atop a hill on a plot of land rumored to have been won in a high-stakes poker game, the building was completed in 1902, as the country estate of Chicago industrialist and railroad manufacturer Albert M. Gilbert. Several owners and reincarnations later, the property now serves as a quaint and cozy retreat for travelers visiting this popular summer vacation destination. Current proprietor Melissa Levis claims it's so magical here, they give guests magic wands when they check in. From $195 a night. www.wilburton.com Cranwell Resort, Spa and Golf Club  Lenox, Massachusetts The Berkshires. The name conjures up flannel-clad weekends spent antiquing and cross-country skiing. And there's no better place to serve as your home base than this 380-acre resort that was once the Wyndhurst Mansion, built in 1894 for John W. Sloane, a relative of the Vanderbilts and owner of the furnishings house W. & J. Sloane. Sloane commissioned premier architecture firm Peabody & Sterns to design the "cottage" itself (cottages at that time were defined as secondary residences with a minimum of 30 rooms and 20 acres), and put Frederick Olmstead, the landscape architect behind Central Park, in charge of the gardens. From $215 per night. www.cranwell.com  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/10/travel/gatsby-gold-coast-long-island/index.html	travel	Gatsby's Gold Coast: 8 grand estates - CNN.com	2013/05/10	Friday May 10 09:59:22 EDT 2013	 
http://www.cnn.com/2013/02/16/travel/downton-abbey-us-style/index.html	travel	'Downton' in America: 6 big estates - CNN.com	2013/02/16	Saturday Feb 16 11:05:44 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Few of us can imagine living the opulent "Downton Abbey" lives of the fictional Crawley family at the turn of the 20th century. There were servants to address one's every material need, dinner in white tie and lavish gowns, and rules designed to keep the upper crust on top and the lower classes in their place. You almost have to see the sprawling estate to believe that the lifestyle existed, yet the trip to visit Highclere Castle, the estate used by the television show in rural England, may cost more than the less well-to-do American can afford. There's no need to cross the pond to get a taste of that life. Although the United States did not have lords or ladies living on grand estates, there were American millionaires who made their fortunes by harnessing the resources of a new country. With an eye to the style of their European counterparts, they built mansions on extensive grounds to show off their power and wealth. So if you're entering a period of "Downton" withdrawal, consider a peek into America's historic high life. The places where masterpieces are born "These homes represented the creation of immense wealth at the turn of the century in the United States, the kind of wealth acquired through fundamental commodities like water, gold, oil and food," said Katherine Malone-France, the National Trust for Historic Preservation's historic sites director of outreach, education and support. "These estates represented the taste and sophistication of their owners, as well as the skills and labors of those who built them and worked in them. These places were icons then and now, and they make for great television and fantastic places to visit as historic sites, because they contain all of those complex, compelling and interwoven stories." The new American wealthy didn't have hundreds of years to build their fancy homes and reputations, yet the Vanderbilts, Rockefellers and other wealthy families built houses to last for generations. These are just a handful of the homes where they were living large around the same time as the "Downton Abbey" story lines. Downton Abbey creates tourism boom The Rockefellers: Hudson Valley, New York With the economic engine that is New York nearby, it makes sense that the country's new wealthy would build their homes and country homes in the city's suburbs and nearby Hudson Valley. The Vanderbilts, Roosevelts and Goulds all had homes in the area. Completed in 1913, Kykuit was the home of Standard Oil founder and philanthropist John D. Rockefeller and the next three generations of his family. The six-story home, now a National Trust for Historic Preservation property operated by the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, is open to the public for tours. Make sure to tour the gardens to see New York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller's 20th-century sculpture collection, including the works of Alexander Calder, Henry Moore and Pablo Picasso. Kykuit's elaborate gardens also feature classical sculpture, pavilions, fountains and Hudson River views. The Douglas family: Cedar Rapids, Iowa Like the fictional Crawleys, the Douglas family was touched by the sinking of the Titanic. Although the Brucemore estate was built for wealthy widow Caroline Sinclair and her six children in 1886, the Sinclair family lived there just 20 years. The George and Irene Douglas family and its descendants, known for Douglas & Co. and Quaker Oats, lived there from 1906 to 1981. It was George's brother Walter who perished on the Titanic. Reports say his wife, Mahala, asked him to join her on a lifeboat. He replied, "No, I must be a gentleman" and went to join a group of men waiting for later lifeboats. His body was recovered later and identified by his monogrammed shirt. Visitors can tour the 21-room Queen Anne style mansion and grounds. The Booths: Bloomfield Hills, Michigan The Canadian-born owner of an ironworks company, George Booth settled in Detroit when he married Ellen Warren Scripps, the daughter of the founder of the Detroit News. The Booths purchased a rundown farm in Bloomfield Hills to turn into their summer home and eventually built a new year-round home, Cranbrook House, which was completed in 1908. George Booth became a leading patron of the American Arts and Crafts movement in the early 20th century, and it showed in the designs he chose for his home and the art he collected. The couple also started six education and arts institutions on their property, including the famous Cranbrook Academy of Art. While still alive, they deeded the house, much of its contents and the surrounding property to the Cranbrook Foundation they created, living the rest of their lives not as owners but under a life trust at Cranbrook House. It is the oldest surviving manor home in the metro Detroit area. The Vanderbilts: Asheville, North Carolina George Vanderbilt didn't care for the city life as much as the rest of his family. So it was no surprise that after he visited the mountains of North Carolina, he eventually built his 250-room estate in Asheville. The Biltmore was completed in 1895, when he was still single. Vanderbilt married Edith Stuyvesant Dresser in Paris in 1898, and the couple raised their only child at Biltmore. Descendants of the Vanderbilts still own and operate the estate as a for-profit company, and the home is now open to the public for tours. There's a 10,000-volume library, a bowling alley, a banquet hall featuring a 70-foot ceiling, an indoor pool and the artwork of Pierre Auguste Renoir and John Singer Sargent, among others. Architect Richard Morris Hunt modeled the house after three 16th-century French chateaux. With more than 30 bedrooms, it's still shy of the 50 plus bedrooms at Downton's Highclere Castle. Still, Biltmore seems more than adequate for a house party. Don't miss the butler's tour if you want to see how the other half lived on the estate. Modern guests can stay at an inn built in 2001 or a historic cottage that once served as the gardener's house. The Bourns: Woodside, California Filoli was completed in 1917 as the country estate for Mr. and Mrs. William Bowers Bourn, San Franciscans whose money came from water and gold. Filoli is just 30 miles outside San Francisco. The European influence can be found all over the property: Tuscan columns in the portico, art from the Bourns' travels to Europe and even some of the house's walls. (The house library was copied from the library at Denham Place, a 1690s home in England.) The expansive formal gardens were designed and constructed between 1917 and 1929. The next owners lived in the house until 1975, when the house and formal gardens were donated to the National Trust for Historic Preservation. The Berwinds: Newport, Rhode Island Downton fans might remember that the mother of American-born Cora, the countess of Grantham, had a home in Newport. That's where rich Americans summered, and it's where visitors can tour several grand homes at a time. Mr. and Mrs. Edward Julius Berwind, who made their money in coal mining, built the Elms as their summer residence in Newport. Now one of the famous Newport Mansions and a National Historic Landmark, the Elms was finished in 1901. Unlike some residents of fictional Downton, who grudgingly adapted to modern conveniences like telephones and electricity, the Berwinds had the Elms outfitted with the latest modern conveniences. The house was among the first in Newport to be fully electrified with no gas backup. There was even an early ice maker. The couple's art collection featured 18th-century Venetian and French paintings and Renaissance ceramics. To get a good sense of life among the servants, the Preservation Society of Newport County, which owns and operates 10 historic properties in Newport, added an Elms servant life tour last year.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/05/travel/air-force-museum-spy-plane/index.html	travel	Area 51 spy plane and other aviation tales - CNN.com	2014/02/05	Wednesday Feb 5 08:20:26 EST 2014	Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio (CNN) -- It looks like an upside-down bathtub with wings, pretty odd for a spy jet that was among the nation's most highly classified pieces of military hardware. As I stand in front of the plane code-named Tacit Blue at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force, near Dayton, Ohio, I'm reminded that it still holds a bit of mystery. Engineers made fun of Tacit Blue's design by nicknaming it the Whale, but the program -- declassified in 1996 -- was deadly serious. It was all about stealth. Pentagon Cold War strategists desperately wanted to build planes that could evade Soviet radar. And so the Air Force launched a "black program" to develop Tacit Blue and tested it at a secret government airbase in Nevada called "Area 51," according to CIA documents released in 2013. The program, which lasted from 1978 to 1985, aimed to develop a single-seater jet for battlefield surveillance. Before last year's document release, the government never acknowledged the existence of Area 51. For decades, a fenced-off area surrounding Nevada's Groom Lake was rumored to be a testing ground for some of the nation's most secret technology. Two retired Air Force test pilots who flew Tacit Blue in the early 1980s, Ken Dyson and Russ Easter, spoke about why this plane was important and what set it apart. Although the plane flew 135 times and was never put into production, without Tacit Blue, there would have been no B-2 Spirit bomber. The plane proved that aircraft with curved surfaces could evade radar. "The airplane flew pretty solid, I'd say," Dyson remembered. Could sightings of Tacit Blue have contributed to UFO reports? "I'm not aware of any circumstance like that," Easter said. Dyson also says no. But Cynda Thomas, widow of the first Tacit Blue test pilot Richard G. "Dick" Thomas, said she was with her husband in Los Angeles when an airline pilot accosted her husband during a test pilots' banquet at the Beverly Hilton. As she remembers it, "The pilot came over, and he said, 'Mr. Thomas, I'm so-and-so, and I fly for Continental, and I'm sure I saw you flying the Tacit Blue -- and you know, I reported you as a UFO.' " "Airline pilots have, over the past, reported some stuff that could have been black aircraft in flight tests," Dyson said. "One and a half" Tacit Blue planes were built, Dyson said, so that "if we lost one, we could have a second one up and flying in short order." What happened to the other half of Tacit Blue? "I think it was done away with -- with total respect to secrecy." Mechanical remnants from a related black program called Have Blue "are buried at Groom Lake," according to a 2011 Air Force report. Groom Lake is inside Area 51, according to those released CIA documents. "I don't know anything at all about that Have Blue stuff and wouldn't answer it if I did," said Dyson, who also tested Have Blue airplanes. Dyson is aware of the CIA documents but said he didn't want to talk about Groom Lake or Area 51 or to even mention those places by name. "That's just because of the secrecy that was drilled into me," he said. Maintaining Tacit Blue's secrets and preventing leaks, Dyson said, was proof of the success of a tightly knit and dedicated team. Pursuing a career centered around a secret job takes discipline. "My wife had no clue what I was doing for a long time," Dyson said. "I just didn't talk about it to her or to anyone else who wasn't cleared on the program. It just wasn't done." Richard Thomas also kept details about his work from his family, Cynda Thomas said, although in 1978 he did reveal to her that he was "going into the black world." Secrecy made professional relationships complicated at times. Associates outside Dyson's and Easter's secret circle wanted to hear "war stories" about what it was like to work in the world of black programs, Easter said. "Sometimes I wish we could tell more stories more freely so that some of the lessons learned could be passed on freer." 50 states, 50 spots to visit in 2014 Three unique things about Tacit Blue  Pantyhose made it safer: According to Cynda Thomas' book "Hell of a Ride," an air compressor was blowing tiny flammable aluminum shavings through inlet pipes and into the cockpit, creating a fire hazard. The engineers' unorthodox solution: cover the inlet pipes with filters made of pantyhose, Thomas wrote. "That could be true," Easter acknowledges.  They created an artificial wind tunnel with a huge transport aircraft. Developers used a huge C-130 Hercules plane to create artificial winds that hit the side of the plane so they could test Tacit Blue's performance. Dyson described it as a sort of "wind tunnel" that was set up "in the black of the night so no one could see us flying overhead with a satellite."  It was very hard to pilot: Tacit Blue at the time was "arguably the most unstable aircraft man had ever flown," ex-Northrop engineer John Cashen told Air Force Magazine. Richard Thomas died in 2006, at age 76. Cynda Thomas said her husband had been battling Parkinson's disease. At Tacit Blue's 1996 unveiling ceremony at the museum, Thomas was able to sit inside the airplane's cockpit one more time. "That's when they let me point my camera up the steps of the airplane to take his picture," recalls Cynda Thomas. "I'm so thankful he got to do that before he passed. That plane was my husband's legacy." 8 very old sites in the New World The plane that wouldn't quit: 'Spare 617' Outside the museum's doors, at the Air Park, sit several giant planes -- each with their own stories. One of them, the Air Force Museum says, saw "one of the greatest feats of airmanship of the Southeast Asia War." In April 1972, a huge C130-E Hercules transport plane code-named Spare 617 was ordered to fly over a raging battle in South Vietnam and parachute-drop giant pallets of ammunition. If all went well, the ammo would resupply South Vietnamese soldiers fighting on the ground. But all did not go well. Preparing to make his drop, pilot William Caldwell flew the plane low over the town of An Loc. But the enemy had put a machine gun nest high above the town in a church steeple, Caldwell recalled. "So, we were just a sitting duck for him." Caldwell remembers machine gun fire ripping through the cockpit, smashing a circuit breaker panel and the plane's windows. Flight engineer Jon Sanders died instantly. The attack wounded copilot John Hering and navigator Richard Lenz and damaged two of the plane's four turboprop engines. Gunfire ruptured a duct designed to bleed hot air from the plane's powerful engines. The scalding air severely burned cargo loadmaster Charlie Shaub, as Caldwell put it, like a "600-degree hurricane." Then it got worse. The attack set fire to some of the plane's explosive cargo. But despite his burns, Shaub was somehow able to eject the burning pallets of ammunition. It was just in time. Seconds later, the ammo exploded as it fell to the ground. Then, Shaub astonishingly snuffed out the fire in the cargo hold. Caldwell closed the bleed air duct and shut down the damaged engines. Next problem: how to save the wounded crew. Caldwell pointed the plane toward an air base with the best medical facilities. He would have to land a giant C-130E with only two working engines -- both on the same side of the aircraft. Things looked grim, he said, but "I got more confident with every mile we got closer to the air base," said Caldwell. Again, things went further south. A hydraulics system that was needed to lower the landing gear became useless. Using nothing but sheer muscle, Lenz and cargo loadmaster Dave McAleece lowered the wheels by hand using crank handles, Caldwell said. Caldwell landed the plane fast: pushing about 170 mph. With hydraulics busted, he had trouble steering the plane. "I used the inboard right side engine to guide the plane down a high-speed runway turnoff," he said. After rolling to a stop, "I got out of the airplane," Caldwell recalled. An airman on the ground asked, "Are you OK?" Caldwell replied, "You bastards didn't prepare us for THIS." Blood Falls and other natural oddities Three notable details about the mission  What recognition did the crew receive? Caldwell and Shaub received the Air Force Cross, the Air Force's second-highest award for valor.  Did the plane have any weapons? Spare 617 flew with virtually no defensive weaponry. "We only had .38 revolvers," said Caldwell, 70, now a retired colonel who teaches aviation management at Southern Illinois University. It was the airplane itself, he said, that helped save them. "That airplane was just as responsible for getting us home as any of the crew."  How hard was it to lower the landing gear? The attack knocked out the plane's hydraulic system, forcing the crew to lower the plane's gigantic landing gear manually. "I think it takes roughly 650 turns of that crank to get a landing gear down on both sides of the airplane. It's an endurance thing more than strength thing." 'Angel' of freedom: The Hanoi Taxi A third piece of flying history at the museum has come to symbolize freedom for former U.S. POWs captured during the Vietnam War. They call it the Hanoi Taxi, the first U.S. plane to ferry newly freed troops out of North Vietnam. Photos of the ex-captives taken aboard the C-141 Starlifter clearly illustrate the joy and relief the men felt that day in February 1973. Until the POWs left enemy airspace, they had refused to give their captors the satisfaction of showing happiness for being released. When they crossed over international waters, stoic silence immediately turned to joyful pandemonium. A few hours later, with the Starlifter in the background, TV viewers watched stunning, emotional reunions in the Philippines between the ex-POWs and their loved ones. Maj. Gen. Edward Mechenbier, a retired Air Force fighter pilot who spent nearly six years as a North Vietnamese prisoner, rode aboard the plane as it carried him back to the United States from the Philippines. "This plane looked like an absolute angel coming to get us," he remembered. Now, the plane sits at the museum's Air Park, at the mercy of the wind and cold. Walking around the aircraft and running your hand across its metal exterior, you get a sense that you're touching a piece of history. "It's a hallowed place," said museum curator Jeff Duford. "And you can definitely get a sense of that when you step aboard it." But right now, that's not possible for visitors. The Taxi's interior is off-limits, and its flight deck windows are covered. The plane -- along with Spare 617 -- is slated to be housed in a new $35.4 million building in 2016. Duford says the museum hasn't decided whether visitors will be able to board either aircraft when they move inside. The Hanoi Taxi flew two freedom missions carrying ex-POWs out of Hanoi's Gia Lam Airport. Overall, the aircraft's total passengers to freedom numbered 78 POWs and two civilian returnees. The plane also flew four freedom missions from the Philippines to the United States, carrying a total of 76 ex-POWs. For four decades, the airplane served around the world, until it retired in 2006 to the Air Force museum. Three unique things about the Hanoi Taxi  The plane returned to Vietnam in 2004: Mechenbier, by then a major general, flew the Hanoi Taxi back to Vietnam on a mission to repatriate the newly recovered remains of two U.S. service members who were killed in action during the war.  It served in the Iraq War: The plane helped transfer wounded troops from Baghdad to Ramstein Air Base in Germany and to Washington for treatment at Walter Reed Army Medical Center.  It served as a disaster evacuation plane: The Hanoi Taxi airlifted survivors to safety after 2005's Hurricane Katrina. Like many of the museum's other hundreds of aircraft, these three planes -- Tacit Blue, Spare 617 and the Hanoi Taxi -- contributed to history. "These really aren't airplanes anymore," Duford said. "They're artifacts. And so we want to make sure, as a responsible institution, that we protect those artifacts. That's more important than anything else."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/26/travel/boeing-aviation-geek-factory-tour/index.html	travel	Aviation geeks tour Boeing factory for 747s, 777s and 787s. - CNN.com	2014/02/26	Wednesday Feb 26 07:53:40 EST 2014	Everett, Washington (CNN) -- Sprawled out before us sits the exterior of the world's biggest building by volume. They make airliners here. Big ones. "Let's go see some airplanes!" says our Boeing VIP tour guide. I remind myself: This doesn't happen very often. Yeah yeah yeah, Boeing offers public tours of this 98.3-acre airliner factory north of Seattle every day. This ain't that. This is special. As part of a convention of aviation fans called Aviation Geek Fest, we're gaining ultra-exclusive access to the factory FLOOR. The public tour is limited to the balcony. We're about to walk knee-deep where Boeing gives birth to some of the world's biggest and most advanced airliners, including the 747-8 Intercontinental, the 777 Worldliner and the 787 Dreamliner. Hot damn. But not so fast -- before we go inside, Boeing has laid down some rules: no photos, no video, for our eyes only. Here's a painful development: Our smartphones have been confiscated. Gulp. I'm already suffering from phantom phone pangs. We enter through a small, inconspicuous door marked S-1. Suddenly, we're surrounded by partly assembled airliners in a room so big it takes on the feeling of an entire world. In some spots, we gaze across an unobstructed view measuring a quarter-mile. This building is so flippin' big that -- years ago -- it created its own inside weather patterns, including vapor clouds. They eliminated that by installing a special ventilation system. Today's factory forecast: avgeeking, with continued avgeeking and a favorable chance of avgeeking later in the day. Here are a few cool tidbits: Jaw-dropping perspective The thrill of being so close to the planes literally stops you in your tracks. Seemingly everywhere you look there's another five- or six-story-tall airplane towering over you. Some are covered with a green, protective temporary coating. One Dreamliner tail is painted with the familiar British Airways red, white and blue. Another sports New Zealand Air's cool black-and-white. Boeing paints the tails before they're attached to the planes. Then they carefully adjust the tails for balance. Paint adds hundreds of pounds of weight, which would ruin the plane's balance if the tails were painted after being attached. Soon these behemoths will jet across vast oceans as they carry travelers to far-flung destinations. 'You've gotta have secret clearance' The planes' huge fuselages are joined together with the help of a giant piece of equipment called a "saddle." This U-shaped metal cage straddles the top of the planes during the body-joining process. The "Wing Build" area -- where workers attach wings to the planes -- is the loudest part of the entire facility. The staccato of rivet guns pierces the heavy air. Whooshing vacuums suck up any dust that may be created when workers drill into the planes' lightweight carbon composite material. Security concerns in the plant are real. "Conversation-restricted area," says one sign. As we walk past a fenced-off zone, our guide quips, "You've gotta have secret clearance. I can't even go in there!" The rock star engine Then, like a holy relic brought back from the Crusades -- Boeing lets us touch "it." By "it" we mean the GE90-115B. Guinness calls it the most powerful commercially produced jet engine in the world. We gather around this rock star engine like thirsty travelers at a desert oasis, each taking turns running our hands across its silver exterior. The lip of the engine's mouth feels rough, like it has countless scratches etched into it. That design, engineers discovered, helps reduce noise. This 19,000-pound monster hangs from the wing of a giant 777, but the engine still looks humongous -- measuring more than 11 feet in diameter. In fact, Boeing says it's so big you could fit the body of a 737 airliner inside it. "There's no way to sense the sheer size of an airplane without being right there underneath it," says NYCAviation.com contributor Ben Granucci, enjoying his first Aviation Geek Fest. Engines like this make it possible for wide-body planes to fly long-distance routes nonstop with only two engines instead of three or four. In fact, the 777 flies many of the world's longest nonstop routes. In 2005 it set the world distance record for a nonstop commercial airline flight, jetting 13,423 miles from Hong Kong eastbound to London in 22 hours, 22 minutes. The world's top flying hauler Just a few hours earlier, a handful of aviation geeks were hanging out at a hotel next to Paine Field, the airport Boeing uses to test and deliver the factory's planes. Then, Granucci tweeted out that the plane that hauls the most cargo by volume in the world just happened to be passing through. Good morning #AGF14-ers! There is a Dreamlifter inbound, due to land at about 8:10 this morning. Count me in. Soon, a dozen camera-wielding geeks are lined up outside the hotel to welcome the Dreamlifter -- a modified 747 -- as it lumbers in for a landing. "We're gonna be late for breakfast," says avgeek Steve Dillo as he snaps photo after photo. "But this is worth it." The thing roars like a lion, but it looks like a whale as it slows for touchdown. In the entire world, there are only four of these giant planes. Boeing uses them to ferry big sections of the 787 for final assembly here in Everett. Last year, when a Dreamlifter landed at the wrong airport in Kansas, it wasn't exactly a stellar moment. The Avgeek News Network This is the fifth avgeek fest, co-sponsored by AirlineReporter.com and Everett's Future of Flight Museum. The February convention drew a record 300-plus participants from 18 different states and three countries. Former GM and Toyota engineer Philip McKenzie, flew 8,000 miles from Melbourne, Australia, to see how "things are laid out" in the factory. Vancouver Airport official Trevor Batstone traveled 100 miles from Canada. Who are these people -- these avgeeks? What defines them? "It's someone who always looks up in the sky when they hear a jet roar," says Ryan Ewing, 14, who runs airlinegeeks.com out of his Bethesda, Maryland, home. Ewing was right there in the thick of the geeks with his camera when the Dreamlifter came calling. The event was born from an aviation-obsessed online community that uses social media to organize and share information. Aviation news sites like Airchive, AirlineReporter, NYCAviation and AirlineGuys all share common friends, connections and interests. When news breaks, their informal social network sometimes challenges traditional news media. This month AirlineReporter and a few other aviation sites broke news about the hijacking of an Ethiopian Airlines 767 in Rome about 30 minutes before many "legacy" news organizations, says AirlineReporter founder and editor-in-chief David Parker Brown. #BREAKING: Ethiopian Airlines' Flight 702 Squawks "HiJacking" for Reasons Unknown #ET702 details: http://t.co/XrN4P1yzoN Boeing's desire to connect with fans and fliers combined with the emerging power of the avgeek nation opened the doors to the exclusive Boeing tours, Brown says. "Boeing has increasingly realized how smart and educated about aviation avgeeks are." Baby Boeings The following day southeast of Seattle, Boeing opens up yet another factory for us to tour. This one is the birthplace of what Guinness calls the "most produced large commercial jet in aviation history" -- the 737. No public tours here. This is a tour for avgeeks and VIPs. "Avgeeks love getting access to places that are off limits," says Brown. "It's all about exclusivity." Here's some 737 tour trivia: This place creates 38 of the planes every month on a moving assembly line. And they're pushing to increase that rate. "Even though we joke that the 737 is the 'Baby Boeing,' it's still a large and complex machine," says Granucci. "It requires precision to put it together. The fact that you can perform such precise work on a moving target -- I find that to be incredible."  The facility receives pre-assembled fuselages by train from a factory in Wichita, Kansas.  Workers attach wings to the fuselages. It takes about nine hours to put wings on a 737. The planes also get "winglets"  the tiny, upward pointing wings you see on the wingtips of 737s and other airliners. These doodads reduce drag on the plane and make it more fuel efficient  by about 4%. Workers install seats on the planes by using a loading machine they call a "hay baler."  In an operation called "high blow," Boeing tests each plane's passenger cabin for possible leaks during pressurization. The procedure includes putting people inside the planes to listen for leaks.  Each 737 is made up of 42 miles of wire and 394,000 separate parts  If there's a problem on the assembly line, workers activate a purple flashing light -- alerting others that they need help. "Blinking purple is bad for us here," says Christian Ofsthus, a Boeing senior manager. "If there's something wrong, something doesn't fit, we need to do something about that." As the tour ends, we wind through an employee diner named for the World War II symbol Rosie the Riveter, and file back onto our bus. Driving off the property, we spot a train loaded with brand new wingless 737 fuselages headed to the factory behind us. That triggers spontaneous applause and scattered whoops throughout the bus. Well, you just can't get any geekier than that. "That is so cool," I hear someone say. "Yeah," said someone else, "baby planes!"  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/20/travel/spruce-goose-museum/index.html	travel	Museum: Giant Spruce Goose aviation icon is safe - CNN.com	2014/01/20	Monday Jan 20 08:23:43 EST 2014	(CNN) -- Bob Lyon remembers the day he met Howard Hughes. He also recalls when Hughes nearly crashed a plane into his boyhood home. Nearly 40 years after Hughes died, Lyon's life still crosses paths with the eccentric billionaire.  Lyon has found himself in the center of a dispute over Hughes' gigantic, bizarre wooden seaplane nicknamed the Spruce Goose. This thing is arguably the world's most famous airplane and -- at five stories tall with a wingspan longer than a football field -- one of the biggest on the planet. Related: Stalking the world's biggest planes The Spruce Goose's home is a respected aviation museum, which is part of an investigation by the state of Oregon. Here's the story: In 1992, Evergreen Aviation and Space Museum in McMinnville, Oregon, struck a half-million-dollar deal with Aero Club of Southern California to buy the legendary plane. Lyon -- who represents Aero Club -- is now negotiating the plane's final payment, which he estimates at about $50,000. For Lyon, this is way more than everyday business. "This plane was a part of my life," said Lyon, 77. "I saw it being built. I saw it being put together." Unfortunately, negotiations have hit a snag. More on that in a minute. First, you gotta know about the amazing story surrounding the plane and the man who flew it. Its official name was the H-4. Hughes called it the Hercules. Designed to carry more than 700 troops, the Spruce Goose flew only once. In 1947 in Long Beach harbor, it grabbed about 70 feet of air for about a mile. Hughes  who piloted the test flight  said it needed more development. He never let it fly again. Was the flight a failure, as some newspapers suggested? Depends on who you ask. Hughes did prove the thing could fly. But it was never officially certified. Lawmakers hauled Hughes before a congressional committee to justify the plane's taxpayer price tag of $22 million. Hughes pointed out that he had spent an additional $18 million of his own funds to develop the plane. Fearless rogue pilot When Lyon met Hughes, it wasn't the OCD-plagued, naked, bearded recluse portrayed near the end of Martin Scorsese's "The Aviator." This was before that. This was a younger Hughes -- the seemingly fearless, rogue pilot and entrepreneur who was hell-bent on success for his aircraft manufacturing company. Lyon was then 10 years old. Hughes seemed like a likable person when they met at the office of Lyon's father -- who was Hughes' patent lawyer. "I'd never seen a tall, lanky, guy with a Texas accent before," he remembers. "I grew up in Southern California." In July 1946, the young Lyon had a more memorable brush with the man when Hughes crashed a prototype reconnaissance plane a block away from his parents' Beverly Hills home. The boy arrived at the crash scene to see a fire, a huge column of black smoke and what was left of three damaged houses. No one was killed, but Lyon saw an ambulance driver help transport a seriously injured victim. "That turned out to be Howard Hughes," he said. Soon, other neighborhood kids descended on the scene and started grabbing small pieces of wreckage and running off with them as souvenirs. Lyon remembers police canvassing the neighborhood looking for the missing debris. "My brother and I were upstairs and my mother went to the front door and there were two officers from the Beverly Hills police department asking, 'Do you have any young children in this house?' She yelled upstairs to us, saying, 'Do you have some pieces of that airplane?' We said, 'No!' And she said, 'Yes, I think you do! Bring them down here! The police are here and they want them.' So we pulled this piece of metal out from underneath my brother's bed and took it downstairs," Lyon recalled with a chuckle. "We thought that was highly unfair." That same year Lyon watched trucks roll the Spruce Goose down local streets from the plane's construction site on Los Angeles' west side to Long Beach. They "cut telephone and power lines to get this huge thing down the road." Hughes died in 1976 at age 70, and by the early 1980s the Spruce Goose was forced to move out of its giant Long Beach hangar. The plane's owners -- including Hughes' Summa Corp. and the U.S. government -- gave the plane to the Aero Club. The transfer forestalled tax expenses and the prospect of cutting the plane into pieces for display at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in Washington. "The Aero Club's mission in this whole thing was to save the Spruce Goose," said Lyon. The club leased the plane to a company as a tourist attraction. Spruce Goose was moved a short distance away to a spectacular seaside dome next to the moored luxury liner Queen Mary. Around that time, during a celebration dinner, Lyon arrived late to what was supposed to be an escorted tour of the plane. He took the liberty of exploring it alone. Lyon, who also has an engineering degree and a pilot's license, said it was like being a "kid in a candy store." He wandered inside one of the aircraft's gigantic wings, amazed at the plane's engineering. He climbed up a set of stairs into the cockpit, daring to sit in the pilot seat where Hughes flew the plane in 1947. "I noted that there were controls for the pilot, but none for the co-pilot," Lyon said with a chuckle. "Yeah, Howard was gonna fly it. He didn't need any help." Eventually the Spruce Goose had to leave the dome. That's when Aero Club struck a bargain with Evergreen and the behemoth was floated up the West Coast on barges in a spectacular 138-day moving operation to Oregon. Now, Lyon is piloting Aero Club's negotiations for the plane's final payment. The dispute, said Lyon, basically comes down to a payment formula and the interpretation of three words: justifiable operating expense. "It's a problem of contract interpretation," Lyon said. News media reports have overstated the negotiations' worst-case scenario, he explained. "We're not interested in repossessing it. It would be a nightmare." For its part, the museum agrees with Lyon. "... both sides expect a prompt resolution of that payment," the museum said in a statement. Although the museum declined CNN's requests for an interview, the museum's statement said the facility remains open, is financially viable and has no plans to close. Bottom line: museum-goers -- which number around 150,000 a year -- have nothing to fear, Lyon said. "The Spruce Goose is going to stay where it is." "The museum is no danger of losing the Spruce Goose," echoed Evergreen spokeswoman Melissa Grace in a statement. "It will stay at its home at the museum for visitors to enjoy for years to come." But the museum faces another financial issue. For months the Evergreen museum, and a related organization called the Captain Michael Smith Educational Institute, have been part of an investigation by Oregon's Justice Department. Agency spokesman Michael Kron said the investigation was sparked by "people who were concerned about financial transactions by Evergreen." The museum owner holds companies that are for-profit and some that are nonprofit. There have been allegations of improper transfer of funds between the two types of companies. The museum said it is independent, self-sufficient and nonprofit. Kron describes the probe as a "charitable activities investigation into the charity that runs the museum." Recently, a broker listed two of the museum's plane exhibits -- a 1945 Grumman Avenger for $250,000 and a 1928 Ford Tri-Motor  for $1.75 million. It's unknown if the museum's decision to sell the planes is linked to its financial issues. "The vast majority" of the museum's aircraft exhibits, it said, "are unaffected by issues" linked to the investigation. Evergreen said most of the planes on display at the museum are on loan from some of the best aviation museums in the world, including the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force, the Smithsonian Institution National Air and Space Museum and the National Naval Aviation Museum. The museum says it's "in no danger of losing its displays from these and other sources" and it has "cooperated with the Department of Justice in its review and that we are confident the Department of Justice would acknowledge our cooperation and the good work we have put into addressing concerns it has raised." Kron said a final investigation report is expected to be made public soon. Meanwhile, Lyon is nearing the finish line as a custodian of this aviation icon. During the two decades since the Spruce Goose deal was struck, he's never traveled to Oregon to see the plane. But, he said, who knows? When it's all said and done, he may fly up for a visit.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/09/travel/irpt-croman-wavephoto/index.html	travel	Risking his life for the perfect wave - CNN.com	2014/04/09	Wednesday Apr 9 08:20:47 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Kenji Croman has broken bones, dislocated his shoulder and elbow, endured concussions and nearly drowned several times. He's also had three close encounters with sharks over the years. A 10-foot wave landed directly on top of him five years ago, bending his body to the point that he actually kicked himself in the head. "I literally heard every bone in my body crack," he said. 29 beach photos that'll make you drool Croman has been photographing ocean waves since 2008, sometimes risking his life to get that perfect shot at the surf break. Despite the risks and inevitable injuries that come with wave photography, the Hawaii resident, body surfer and former competitive swimmer wouldn't do anything else. The 36-year-old photographer loves the thrill of meeting the barrel of a wave head on, shooting waves as his passion and shooting surfers to pay the bills. Some of his business involves creating Instagram promotions for Dos Equis, Maui Sunrise Shells and other companies. He has been able to shoot some of the most beautiful and untouched beaches in South America and Mexico through a Kickstarter fundraising campaign. But most of his wave photos are taken close to home. His favorite moment? When the sun rises at Sandy Beach in Oahu, Hawaii, but the waves there are good at any hour. What Croman loves about waves is how each one is unpredictable and as unique as a fingerprint. And he captures waves from an angle that allows spectators to see them breaking in slow motion as he does. The process of photographing waves requires more than just swimming out to where the surf breaks and waiting, he says. The night before a photo shoot Croman checks Surfline.com, a website and streaming coastal HD camera network that provides live and predicted ocean weather information, to see what the winds, waves and tide will be like at certain times. "If the winds are blowing offshore, this creates nice barrels and usually better conditions than if the winds are blowing onshore." Croman has both a primary camera and a backup for emergencies. He goes without a wetsuit but wears fins and uses heavy duty underwater housing to protect his camera. There is no great way for him to protect himself. He admits there is probably protective gear he should be wearing, but there is little he could have done to decrease the impact of the 10-foot wave that crashed on top of him. Croman was rushed to the hospital where his doctor initially thought he had broken his neck. His neck was fine, but he was hospitalized for a week and spinal fluid leaked out of his ear, he says. The hardest part of Croman's job is staying calm in the face of breaking waves when his initial instinct is to panic and swim away. He once risked his life to shoot a 25-foot wave but the resulting photo "looked like a three-foot wave," he says. The 25-foot rock in the background "didn't give it the right depth you need to show how big the wave was." Croman studies the swells, searching for patterns and trying to time when a wave will break. At most, Croman will take two to three shots of a single wave. "I've shot waves for so many years now that I see the wave in slow motion," he said. Travel photos we wish we'd taken Blood Falls and more natural oddities  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/17/travel/ireport-letter-to-chicago/index.html	travel	Dear Chicago, we love you despite it all - CNN.com	2014/04/17	Thursday Apr 17 08:17:01 EDT 2014	Editor's note: CNN asked you to tell us what you love about Chicago, and some of your enthusiastic responses are included in this article.  (CNN) -- Dear Chicago, You sure aren't perfect. Numerous city aldermen and officials have been brought down by corruption charges. Your schools are failing. You have a high rate of gun violence, which has cast shadows upon your reputation. Despite the long list of wrongs, there are a lot of things you do right. Lifelong Chicagoans and loving visitors are consistently complimentary of you. We say this without shame: Chicago, we love you, imperfections and all. You are 77 official neighborhoods, according to the mayor's office. But more than 200 "pocket" neighborhoods make up your anatomy. WBEZ: Who creates Chicago's neighborhoods? Your people ride through your bloodstream on the L, where we can see your distinct personalities in each lively neighborhood. Concert venues and Al Capone's favorite hangout, the Green Mill, beam as we zoom through Uptown. The Garfield Park Conservatory emanates natural beauty on the West Side. And lessons from the past fill our minds as we near the DuSable Museum of African American History in Washington Park. "Chicago is the world in one place. It's being able to get tacos in Little Village one day for lunch and tzatziki in Greek Town the next," says 21-year-old student Reynaldo Leal. Persian, Polish or Puerto Rican, you've got the world covered. Your citizens make you who you are, with people from across the globe calling you home. Some stay put in their ethnic enclaves, speaking their native tongues, while others are curious neighborhood hoppers who seek authentic food and culture. Chicago. Just saying your name is enough to conjure fond memories for Amanda Fallico. She can imagine riding down Lake Shore Drive on a warm summer evening. Summer is when our love for you crescendos. You are at your peak of liveliness. Tight-knit families watching movies in the park, children playing games at North Avenue Beach and couples strolling along the magnificent lakefront are some of the things that bring you to life come summer. "Chicago's parks are the settings for (a) world-class collection of sculptures, and the people of Chicago are lucky enough to have them in their backyard," says Matt Kochar. But even in the winter, for any of us who brave the never-ending snowfall and brutal, subzero wind chills, you are truly a beauty. When the tourists are too scared to come outside, it's us locals who get the rare treat of staring into Cloud Gate (affectionately known as "the Bean") all alone. Zahava Hanuka witnessed your quiet side during a moment just like this. While the Bean, Chicago Picasso and Alexander Calder's Flamingo are all figures of beauty, your buildings and stunning skyscrapers are architectural marvels in themselves. Whether we're lost in the past of the historic Rookery building or meandering through the urban canyons beneath the futuresque Trump Tower, your architecture tells us the story of your life. Sometimes, you talk to us through your buildings. When the Blackhawks made the playoffs last year, skyscrapers lit up with words of encouragement. The same treatment goes for the Bears, Bulls, Sox and well, someday the Cubs. (Here's to hoping someone breaks the Curse of the Billy Goat soon!) Share your Wrigley Field photos Your cheering buildings prove you're a big city that doesn't take yourself too seriously. As Swathi Sridhara puts it, "Chicagoans have a unique blend of small-town Midwest charm and a gritty city work ethic." And if your gleaming towers and your potholed streets are your skeleton, then your heart lies in your people. Farhaj Hassan, who moved away as a child, said it well: "Chicago doesn't just reside in our heart -- it is our heart. Chicago is us, we of Chicago are Chicago." Chicago, no matter what anyone says, we will always be proud to call you home. Love, Chicagoans everywhere Author Christina Zdanowicz is a proud native of Chicagoland who refuses to call the Sears Tower by its new name and unabashedly cheers for the Cubs.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/19/travel/cherry-blossoms-irpt/index.html	travel	Winter blues will turn pink: Cherry blossom season starts - CNN.com	2014/03/19	Wednesday Mar 19 10:03:04 EDT 2014	What does spring look like for you? Share your photos with CNN iReport. (CNN) -- Our winter blues are about to turn pink! This year's National Cherry Blossom Festival starts in Washington on Thursday. The annual event attracts more than a million people from across the country and abroad. The festival is starting on the first day of spring, as always, but peak bloom is predicted to be later this season because of the brutal winter in the D.C. area. "We're really excited to welcome spring with all this winter weather," said Danielle Davis, a festival spokeswoman. The National Park Service says peak bloom, the day when 70% of the blossoms of the Yoshino cherry trees around the Tidal Basin are open, is forecast to fall between April 8 and 12. The average peak bloom date for the past 21 years has been March 31. As one of the largest springtime festivals in the United States, the start of cherry blossom season may finally mean old man winter is retiring for the year. If you can't make a trip to the nation's capital to see these delicate flowers, then you're in luck, because we've got a collection of beautiful blossom photos from previous years to share with you. (See the gallery in high resolution here.) MORE: The world's best beach is ... MORE: 50 ways to be a daredevil  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/02/05/travel/travel-photo-of-day/index.html	travel	Travel Photo of the Day - CNN.com	2013/02/05	Tuesday Feb 5 09:43:22 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Each day, CNN producers select a user-submitted photo to be our Travel Photo of the Day. Click through the gallery above to see stunning shots from around the world, and be sure to come back every day for a new image. Have a gorgeous travel photo of your own to share? Submit it for the gallery at CNN iReport!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/13/travel/hawaii-ways-to-feel-local/index.html	travel	11 best ways to experience Hawaii - CNN.com	2014/03/13	Thursday Mar 13 11:24:44 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Michele Bigley has split her time between California and Hawaii since 2006. She is the author of "Backroads and Byways of Hawaii" and "Explorer's Guide to Kauai, A Great Destination." (CNN) -- When visiting Hawaii, who doesn't imagine packing up and relocating to America's tropical wonderland? The epic sunshine and the rainbows, the afternoons of shave ice on glorious beaches inspire millions to vacation in the Aloha State each year. Before you sell off your belongings and pack your bags, try to experience the islands like a true Hawaiian to see whether you have what it takes to handle all that paradise. Leave your cell phone at the hotel, and take off your watch. You're in Hawaii, and everything moves at a slower pace. Life is measured by the sun, surf and simple pleasures. Make time for a morning stroll through Oahu's greenbelt to swim in Jackass Ginger Pool (a natural swimming hole accessed from the Judd Memorial Trail), a Sunday afternoon serenade at Molokai Coffee Plantation, an impromptu swim in the ocean without so much as a nod in the direction of the sea turtles feeding by the nearby rocks. 29 beach photos that'll make you drool Forget the overpriced resort food. Locals know that the real ono grindz (Hawaiian for yummy food) comes from joints like Maui's Bully's Burgers (on Piilani Highway, the backroad to Hana, 808-878-3272) or Oahu's Nico's Pier 38. And don't bother forking over the big bucks for gourmet poke, a delicacy of raw marinated ahi and onions. Instead, pick up the freshest ahi at local favorites like the Big Isle's Da Poke Shack and Kauai's Koloa Fish Market (808-742-6199). Hula is not mere booty-shaking. Each movement of this ancient dance tells a multilayered story, rich with meaning. A hand toward the air might mean sky but can speak of a lost love. To really feel like a Hawaiian, sign up for a hula class. Companies like Hawaii Hula Company teach private hula lessons for both locals and tourists on Oahu and Maui. Accept it: Hawaii is expensive. Locals don't flinch at paying $10 for a quart of milk. But if you excavate their kitchens, you'll spot heaps of head-sized avocados, grapefruits and lemons taking up space on the counter. The key to shopping like a Hawaiian is making friends with both Costco and the farmers' markets. Oahu's KCC Farmers' Market, Kapaa's Wednesday afternoon market on Kauai and the Big Island's Saturday morning Keauhou Farmers Market are some of the best in the state. Record-setting natural wonders in the U.S. Have a relationship with the ocean, but respect its power. Surf's up, a swell hit the North Shore, and suddenly shopkeepers lock their doors and head to the beach. You want to join the crowds? Check in with yourself. Be honest about your abilities. Only the most advanced surfers should take on winter north shore swells on any of the islands. Newbies can learn on the more mellow summer waves or the easier waters at beaches like Maui's Kalama Park. Party like the ancients. A real luau is not some big-budget affair held in a resort. Usually, families hold luaus for a first birthday party or major special event. They often take place on the grassy knolls above a beach and feature lots of barbecued meats, a large cooked pig, poi (an acquired taste; even most locals can't stomach the bland pureed taro), Molokai sweet potatoes, lomilomi (a salmon concoction that requires you to massage the fish) and plenty of live music. Rather than forking over the big bucks (up to $100 a head at most resorts) for a choreographed luau, throw your own party. Beaches like Oahu's Ala Moana, Kauai's Anini Beach and Maui's Kamaole Beach Parks offer the perfect setting to celebrate life in the islands. (Spike a) Drink like the natives. Thirsty? Don't bother hoofing it to the store. Instead, scale a palm tree, grab a coconut, return to your condo, machete it open, mix with rum and enjoy a seriously fresh cocktail. If your tree climbing skills need some work, Hawaii has its share of spirit makers. Kauai's Koloa Rum, Maui's Ocean Vodka, the Big Island's Kona Brewing Company (they also have an outpost on Oahu) and Maui Brewing Company's outstanding coconut porter all help enliven an evening. Plus, tours and tastings are offered at their facilities. 22 can't-miss U.S. beaches Traffic is a part of life in paradise, too. It's unavoidable these days. Most islands (save Molokai and Lanai) are plagued with gridlock during the morning and afternoon commutes. And it's not just the tourists lining up to brave the Road to Hana. The worst backups are on Honolulu's highways and on Maui and Kauai's thoroughfares into town. At least if you have to be stuck in the car, you can appreciate the beauty as you listen to local tunes on the public radio broadcasts. Favorites include Kauai's KKCR and the Big Island's KAPA radio. Toss the socks. It's all about the slippahs, aloha shirts and board shorts on the islands. The casual dress sure is appealing. Getting dressed up in Hawaii means tossing on your aloha shirt (though please don't get matching ones in his and hers) and being adorned by a lei (if it's a special occasion) or a large flower in a woman's hair. Typical island wear consists of shorts and T-shirts for just about everyone. Learn at least a few words of the Hawaiian language. To show respect, learn a few words. If nothing else, know what a haole is (a not-always-nice way to refer to a mainlander) or aloha (which means hello, goodbye and love), makai (the ocean side of the street) and mauka (the mountain side of the street), which are common directional terms worth adding to your vocabulary. However, while on the islands, don't start speaking in pidgin (the Hawaiian dialect). That's the equivalent of going to England and trying to speak in a Cockney accent. Incorporate the Aloha Spirit into your day. Aloha's a state of mind, a series of actions, not merely a word. At its core, it means treating the world and others like they are a part of you. Living the Aloha Spirit involves sharing your kindness and wisdom, your heart and your true self with your community. Hawaiian people come together to help each other out, whether that means cleaning up your trash or helping rebuild a house upended by a storm. Getting into the community and giving rather than taking is the most rewarding way to be able to call yourself Hawaiian. This can manifest as a smile or supporting a local business. All that matters is that everyone works in tandem to spread the love. Not a bad way to live, huh? Do you live in Hawaii? What's the best way to get a true sense of the islands? 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/04/travel/scottish-castles-for-tartan-day/index.html	travel	10 of Scotland's spectacular castles - CNN.com	2014/04/04	Friday Apr 4 10:06:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In the best fairy tales, there is always a castle: tall turrets, an intimidating moat and a breathtaking view. In Scotland, those ancient castles overlook deep lochs and tower over cities. The wandering traveler will find these envy-inducing castles in every corner of Scotland. In honor of Sunday's National Tartan Day, a holiday celebrating the influential role Scots have played in American history, CNN has chosen 10 magnificent castles to explore in the old country. From the capital city of Edinburgh to the dramatic landscapes of the Highlands, here are some of the most striking castles in Scotland. Cue the castle-owning daydreaming. 27 photos of glorious Ireland Eilean Donan, Inverness-shire This 13th-century castle in the middle of a loch is one of the most iconic in Scotland. Located in the Highlands looking out toward the Isle of Skye, this stunning castle is connected to the mainland via footbridge. It was restored in the early 20th century and is often featured in television and movies. Visitors can wander through the rooms to see period furniture, artifacts and weaponry. Edinburgh Castle, City of Edinburgh Perhaps the most famous (and most visited) castle in Scotland is right in the center of the capital city. Perched on top of the city on Castle Rock, this fortress has a strong presence in Edinburgh's skyline. The oldest section of the castle dates to the 12th century, and many visitors travel here specifically to see the Crown Jewels of Scotland. Guided tours are available. Culzean Castle, Ayrshire  Observant travelers might recognize Culzean Castle from the back of the 5-pound note issued by the Royal Bank of Scotland. This cliffside castle on the Ayrshire coast has been associated with the Kennedy family for centuries. It is a particularly memorable example of a fairy tale-like structure with its turrets and battlements, stationed above the stormy seas and surrounded by gardens and forests. Ballindalloch Castle, Banffshire  Often called "The Pearl of the North," this 16th-century castle is in the heart of one of Scotland's whisky regions, Speyside. Unlike other castles in Scotland, this is one of the few castles in the country that remains private: The Macpherson-Grant family has continually lived here over the centuries. The castle is open to visitors during the summer months and has a shop with a variety of Scottish goods including tartans and jewelry. 8 elegant U.S. mansion hotels Castle Fraser, Aberdeenshire Movie buffs might recognize Castle Fraser from "The Queen," starring Helen Mirren (it appeared as a backdrop). Castle Fraser is one of the grandest, most romantic-looking castles in the country. Built between 1575 and 1636, the castle sits on more than 300 acres of landscaped grounds and woodlands. Inside, it has the feeling of a family home with portraits of the Fraser family and original furniture. Stirling Castle, Stirlingshire  One of the largest (and most important from a historic/architectural perspective) castles is Stirling Castle. An easy trip from both Edinburgh and Glasgow, this castle was once the destination of knights and nobles who flocked to the luxurious property with its elaborate gardens. It's a good spot for families to visit; costumed characters in historic roles are on the grounds, and children can dress up in period costumes and play medieval instruments. Earth's greatest unexplored places Urquhart Castle, Inverness-shire  The mythical Loch Ness Monster, Nessie, might lure travelers to the Scottish Highlands, but it is Urquhart Castle that delivers the drama. One of the most-visited castles in the country, this castle's Grand Tower overlooks expansive Loch Ness. An early medieval fortification was built here, but the ruins seen today date to the 13th to 16th centuries. The castle also played a strategic role in the Wars of Scottish Independence. Glamis Castle, Angus One of the most towering -- and historically interesting -- castles in Scotland is Glamis Castle. This structure has the claim to fame as being the setting for Shakespeare's "Macbeth," along with being the childhood home of Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother (her younger daughter, Princess Margaret, was born here). The surrounding estate is made up of 14,000 acres of gardens, farms and forests. Inveraray Castle, Argyllshire  Located in western Scotland on the shore of Loch Fyne, this castle has a fairytale facade with an enchanting interior. Many visitors indulge in the tea room here, offering a glimpse into royal life. "Downton Abbey" fans might recognize it from the season 3 Christmas episode. The castle has a lovely 16-acre garden surrounded by a massive 60,000-acre estate. Crathes Castle, Aberdeenshire Found in the Aberdeenshire woodlands, Crathes Castle dates to the 16th century and has ties to Scottish warrior-king Robert the Bruce. Towers, turrets, and ghost stories make this an especially intriguing castle to visit, along with the beautiful walled garden. Travelers interested in art will be drawn to the collection of portraits and painted ceilings.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/23/travel/wizarding-world-harry-potter-diagon/index.html	travel	First look at new Wizarding World of Harry Potter - CNN.com	2014/01/23	Thursday Jan 23 11:35:01 EST 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2013/04/03/travel/national-geographic-kids-travel/index.html	travel	10 places that can change your child's life - CNN.com	2013/04/03	Wednesday Apr 3 08:37:04 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- She's looking over the boat's edge to spot a dolphin and record its markings. He's digging for medieval tools in the fields around an abandoned friary. Or they're simply hearing their native language spoken a bit differently in a different country, where the food doesn't quite taste the same. Travel can introduce kids to the world's real-life wonders, changing their perspective on topics they may have only read about in books. It can literally change their lives. "There is a kid's way of seeing the world," says Keith Bellows, editor-in-chief of National Geographic Traveler magazine and author of National Geographic's "100 Places That Can Change Your Child's Life." "As an adult, get out of the way, and stop marching them through an experience. When you get them to slow down and experience a place from their perspective, it's magic. Not just the place itself, but the experience." Consider Bellows' suggestions a step up from simply taking a vacation. He says these places could open your child's eyes to the diversity of the world, help them learn what interests them and inform how they navigate it as adults. Marco Island, Florida Of course Walt Disney World is a Florida rite of passage for many children (and their parents) but there's so much to the state that isn't prefabricated. Marco Island is one of those places for Bellows, with beaches showing off the rusticity and charm of old Florida. Kids will love the beach and you can sneak in some science in the spectacular nature surrounding you. To Disney or not to Disney? Get on board the Dolphin Explorer with your children and turn them into citizen scientists. Capt. Chris Desmond, founder of the 10,000 Islands Dolphins Project, directs children to note the family compositions, behavior and even evidence of shark bites of the dolphins they spot. They give the data to adult biologists onboard who feed it into a computer. The bonus: If a child spots a new dolphin -- most are already known to the crew -- that child gets to name the dolphin. "Every kid wants to spot a newcomer and it happened on a trip I was on," says Bellows. Big Sur, California The drive from San Francisco into Big Sur may be Bellows' favorite drive in the world. "It is one of the most hair-raising drives in the world, and you get the sense of a wild, driving adventure," he says. "I've done it at least 40 or 50 times, and I never get tired of it." He recommends renting a convertible and coming down from San Francisco through the agriculture fields onto the California coast, much of which is protected and can be explored along the way. One highlight: Point Lobos State Natural Reserve, just north of Big Sur. "It really teaches children that if you really love an area, you can protect it. Most of that coastline is protected, and it shows you what happens when you don't screw it up. " Grand Canyon Nothing makes Bellows feel more humble than standing on the lip of the Grand Canyon, even if he's standing with thousands of other people. "It's a bite out of the Earth, a thrilling glimpse into the inside of the Earth," he says. Top U.S. spots for family fun When children see the canyon layers below, that's the first step in their understanding of the geology of the Earth, says Bellows. Take an age-appropriate hike so your children can see the layers and wildlife that make up the canyon. "They can see we didn't just spring from nothing. This is a wafer sandwich of the world, and we're going to be one of the layers one day." Chesapeake Bay, Maryland The nation's largest estuary, the Chesapeake Bay is filled with 64,000 square miles of rivers, marshes and bays. "My kids have grown up there kneeling in grass, looking for tadpoles and pulling up crab pots ... and I love it," says Bellows. "It's some of the wildest primitive country we have. You can watch the ebb and flow of oysters, crabs and fishes, and it tells you how you're treating this incredible place." It's the home of the wild ponies children have read about it in Marguerite Henry's "Misty of Chincoteague." Those ponies of Assateague Island National Seashore live in two herds. You can see the ponies at the park but don't feed them (to keep them wild). Library of Congress, Washington It's OK to tell your children that the movie "National Treasure: Book of Secrets" was filmed at the Library of Congress. (Heck, show them the movie in advance of your trip.) And yes, that it's the biggest library in the world with 3,800 staff, 500 miles of shelving and 128 million items (with about 10,000 items added each day). 7 tips for cherry blossom fun in D.C. "If you go into the Library of Congress, you're going to tell them it's a library but it's also a treasure trove," says Bellows. Whatever your child likes, whether it's music or maps or sports or humor, it's likely he or she can find something about it here. Your children also can get a "Passport to Knowledge" to guide them to the library's so-called greatest hits, and they can play at Knowledge Quest kiosks and bookmark places of interest to explore later on a personalized mini-site. New York City A visit to New York for every child who has not grown up there is also a rite of passage, says Bellows. "Every kid has to go to New York City, and every adult does, too," he says. "Every time you go back and haven't been there for awhile, it's a new place. It's so big and so fast." Take the Circle Line boat tour, he suggests, so you can see by sailing around it how small an island Manhattan actually is. You can notice how connected it is to the other islands of Staten Island and Long Island (where Brooklyn and Queens are) and the Bronx, which is actually on the U.S mainland. "Here's an island in the middle of nowhere but it's connected to the entire world." For children seeing the Statue of Liberty, a Broadway show or the city decorated at Christmas for the first time, "it gets imprinted on kids' minds." London London is a starter city for U.S. parents who want to take their kids out of the country, after you've explored the nearest metropolitan city and your national parks. "They speak English in London but a child will know just how foreign it is, with things like Marmite," says Bellows. "The wonderful thing about it is, this is a little like Harry Potter world. It's familiar enough to be safe and foreign enough to be thrilling." Older children will love the ghoulish (and true) tales of the Tower of London. Begun in the 1070s by William the Conqueror, the tower was Europe's first fortress. Queen Anne Boleyn was beheaded there in 1536 and is rumored to still haunt the place. Trim, Ireland How could medieval warriors run in chain mail armor? How heavy is a stone ax, really? Head to the ruins of the Dominican Black Friary, a short distance from Trim Castle in the town of Trim, Ireland. Once a home for religious men and women, the friary's ruins are being excavated in a special way. Visitors can get a crash course in excavation and start digging and recording their findings side-by-side with archaeologists and geologists. Younger children get to play at a camp, where they get to pick up heavy stone axes and run in chain mail. Older children will enjoy a tour of nearby Trim Castle, which starred in the movie "Braveheart." Hugh de Lacy and his son Walter began construction of the castle, the largest Anglo-Norman castle in Ireland, in the 1170s. The castle protected the medieval village, once a commercial and religious powerhouse. "What amazing architects these people were, and how remarkably old this is," says Bellows. "It's the quintessential castle. It's knights, bow and arrows and blood on the ground." Muskoka, Canada Bellows grew up in Muskoka, two hours north of Toronto in Ontario's cottage country. "This is where kids can really connect with wilderness, even more so than the Chesapeake," he says. "There are dark lakes and loons at night. You can come out to a fish, flip the canoes and find the air holes underneath." Almost anyone can rent a cabin in this area known for its more than 1,600 lakes and leave electronic entertainment behind, he says. "It is simple, simple living. You can take off your shoes for days" and simply run around barefoot. Galapagos Islands There's no doubt this trip is expensive. People who want to visit the Galapagos Islands have to take approved tours, designed to protect the islands' fragile ecology. This is where Charles Darwin developed his theory of evolution, where nearby islands have different ecologies and animals who have adapted differently to their environments. "There is no place like it in the world," says Bellows. "I've been twice, and the first time I went, I realized what Darwin was talking about. You see two birds who look the same but they have different vocalizations. It's like two people speaking English but one person is from Brooklyn and the other is from Boston." The animals have no fear of humans, so your children will swim with dolphins and turtles and play near seals. But it's not all peaceful. "I saw a seal attacked by a shark and dying, tortoises leaning into each other, both dead," he says. "You're on a beach and you see crabs hatch prematurely in the middle of the day, slowly breaking down. It's Darwin's theory of evolution and the survival of the fittest." A tough, but essential, life lesson. Where do you want to take your children before they grow up? What do you think is important or them to see? Please share in the comments below.   
http://www.cnn.com/2013/07/17/travel/amsterdam-travel-legal-parameters/index.html	travel	Amsterdam for tourists: What's legal? - CNN.com	2013/07/17	Wednesday Jul 17 08:19:21 EDT 2013	Amsterdam (CNN) -- You may have noticed an interesting reaction when you tell people you're traveling to Amsterdam. They sometimes get that curious look, that knowing half-smile on their faces. "Amsterdam," they say with a mischievous grin, "lucky you!" Are they thinking about Van Gogh and Rembrandt, about the fabulous museums, the flowing canals, the teeming bicycle paths, the gorgeous tulips -- or is it something else? To many, Amsterdam is synonymous with freedom. With the ability to do what is forbidden in other places. Throwback lodging: Stay in another era Undoubtedly, millions travel to the Netherlands to see the just re-opened Rijksmuseum and its famous "Night Watch" painting, along with many other attractions of this truly charming city. But, let's face it, Amsterdam conjures another fascination. Decades before anyone else considered legalizing marijuana, prostitution or gay marriage, the Dutch stood -- as they still do today -- at the forefront of change on many controversial social issues, legalizing or tolerating a range of activities that other countries placed squarely outside what they consider legally and socially acceptable. That is not to say other countries did not have recreational drugs, homosexuality and prostitution. But the Dutch, with their history of practicality and compromise, decided to deal with these matters in a pragmatic way. In the process, they created a whole new world for tourists craving tolerance and a brush with the forbidden. Amsterdam remains a magnet for travelers who find the idea of smoking marijuana in public -- perhaps in front of a passing cop to add to the experience -- simply irresistible. Still, there are great misconceptions about what is and is not legal here. The picture of a hedonistic free-for-all is not altogether accurate. The Dutch are a people of rules and laws. Although they also have an interesting approach to certain issues, where the law says one thing and the official policy is to look the other way. 8 hotels still fresh at 100 So what, precisely, is legal in the Netherlands? You may be surprised to learn that recreational drugs are illegal in the Netherlands. Yes, even pot. But an official policy of tolerance emerged and in 1976 the Dutch parliament decriminalized possession of less than 5 grams of cannabis. That gave rise to a type of establishment found only in this country. In hundreds of "coffee shops" across the country -- not to be confused with "cafes" where you, in fact, go for coffee -- you can select from a menu of cannabis products and light up in full view indoors or at a sidewalk table. It is the crowded, cloudy coffee shops that give Amsterdam its unmistakable summer aroma. The city is also home to countless seed shops, a hash and marijuana museum, and other businesses aimed at extracting cash from the peculiarly happy drug tourists. Things got a little complicated in 2008, when the Netherlands, as other countries, imposed restrictions on smoking in public places. A great battle ensued as coffee shop owners complained the ban would put them out of business. Dutch compromising ensued. So, today, you cannot smoke in most public establishments, but you can still smoke marijuana in a coffee shop. All non-medical drugs, to be clear, are illegal. But there are two categories. Cannabis and some types of "recreational mushrooms" are in a separate class; still illegal, but largely tolerated. The most powerful type of "magic mushrooms," containing psilocybin, were made illegal in 2008, but authorities say they will not prosecute anyone holding very small quantities. Hashish is also in a gray area, up to each municipality to decide. Not everyone likes this openness. Weed tourism is controversial in some circles and there are worries that lax laws attract more than just the tattoos and scraggly beard crowd, encouraging drug traffickers to enter the market. Weed aficionados across parts of the world panicked a couple of years ago when a conservative government announced plans to stem drug tourism, partly as a result of friction with neighboring countries. Under the new rules, coffee shops would issue membership cards, Weed Passes, only to local residents. Foreigners would not be able to come to the Netherlands to get high. But, as coffee shop owners admit, it's not the Dutch who are lighting up. Ninety percent of the customers getting buzzed in Amsterdam are foreigners. Amsterdam authorities complained the plan would take a huge financial toll, as millions of visitors every year inhale the offerings of coffee shop menus. After a very Dutch debate on the pros and cons of the plan, the government rewrote the law, leaving it up to each city to decide on the rules. Amsterdam scrapped it, while Maastricht, on the border with Germany and Belgium, left the ban in place and imposed fines on coffee shop owners defying the ban on pot sales to foreigners. So, to recap: No cigarette smoking in public; yes to pot in small quantities, but not in Maastricht, and mushrooms are OK in very small quantities. Today, pot smokers can be found meandering aimlessly along Amsterdam's famous Red Light district, the warren of alleyways and canals where prostitutes rent small rooms and stand in their windows, bathed in the light of red lamps before potential customers and sightseers. Policemen pedal easily alongside visitors, keeping an eye on the scene. Prostitution and brothels have been legal in the Netherlands since 2000. Prostitutes are supposed to have work permits and enjoy the protections of the country's labor laws. Another area of controversy in which the Dutch moved swiftly to the fore of social change is gay marriage. The Netherlands was the first country to fully legalize marriage equality. In 2001, the world's first same-sex ceremony was conducted by then-Amsterdam Mayor Job Cohen. You can't come to the Netherlands with your beloved to tie the knot, however: One of the partners has to be a Dutch resident. You can, however, share the city with the hundreds of thousands of Amsterdammers who ride their bicycles to and from work every day. The law does not require you to wear a helmet and practically no one does. You are, however, required to have a light and a bell on your bike. If you walk, make sure to stay out of the official bike lanes. If you choose to drive a car, it is illegal to use a mobile phone while you drive, and if you run into a bicycle, Dutch law places the responsibility on the driver of the car. So, if you go to a coffee shop, better not drive a car, or even a bicycle. Your friends are right. Lucky you if you've come to Amsterdam. It's a very special city. Whether or not you want to enjoy the freedom of Amsterdam, just remember there's much more to the Netherlands than coffee shops and red lights. And the Rijksmuseum is definitely worth a visit.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/22/travel/art-fair-cities/index.html	travel	Five spectacular art fair cities - CNN.com	2013/05/22	Wednesday May 22 08:02:41 EDT 2013	Editor's note: "The City" is a CNN special series that profiles the sustainable urban future of five cities over five days. Watch the show every day during our special theme week starting Monday, Aug 19 on "World Business Today" at 1300 GMT and "Connect The World" at 2000 GMT. (CNN) -- If you're of the opinion that the only thing better than viewing great art is owning it, put these destinations on your travel itinerary. Not only are they cities renowned for their beauty, their museums and their architecture, they are the sites of the world's great art fairs. From ancient objects to art that was conceived yesterday, these carefully curated fairs offer the best of the best to their audiences. Attending one is like walking through a museum where everything is for sale -- to anyone with adequate funds. Yet even if you're not equipped to buy, you can still visit these fairs, take part in the spectacle and feed your aspirations. 5 train stations worth a stop Maastricht, The Netherlands Held annually in Maastricht, the European Fine Art Fair is the art fair by which all others are measured. "There is no other fair like it," says Lawrence Steigrad, a New York City fine art dealer who specializes in Old Master paintings. At the fair in March, he sold an 1810 painting by Dutch artist Nicolaas Baur to the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam. That's the level of "shopper" who attends this fair: museum curators, serious collectors and those who aspire to be serious collectors. Calvin Klein and Kanye West are among those who have been spotted at the invitation-only preview day in recent years. They come because the quality and authenticity of every piece -- from antiquities to contemporary art -- undergoes what is acknowledged in the art world to be the strictest vetting process of any art fair. After the preview day, the fair is open to all. The ticket price is considerable, but the chance to see and possibly purchase such art, antiques and objects is extraordinary. The next fair takes place March 14-23, 2014, and there's talk of launching a TEFAF Beijing fair as well. Maastricht, in the southern Netherlands near Belgium, is known as a place where Amsterdam residents go for a weekend break. The cafes and restaurants around Vrijthof Square are lively and comfortable. Selexyz Dominicanen, housed in a former Dominican church, is one of the world's most beautiful bookstores, and the Bonnefantenmuseum is an excellent place to see art all year round. The places where masterpieces are born London Ever since its debut four years ago, Masterpiece London has been gaining a reputation as a mini-TEFAF. Installed in a specially built pavilion on the grounds of the Royal Hospital Chelsea in London, Masterpiece specializes in fine art, antiques and design, and adds luxury goods -- cars, yachts, watches and wines -- to the mix of offerings. Everything is vetted, everything is expensive, and Prince Harry was one of the VIP attendees in 2011. The list of exhibitors is hovering around 200 for this year's fair, which will take place June 26-July 3. Yet the even newer fair that everyone's talking about now is Frieze Masters, an adjunct to Frieze London, both of which will take place October 17-20. While Frieze London showcases contemporary art, Frieze Masters, which premiered in 2012, is for everything pre-21st-century. Last year's exhibitors included 90 international dealers; attendees included curators from around the world; and sales included ancient Mesopotamian artifacts, Renaissance marbles, a couple of Picassos and a Joan Mir painting with an eight-figure asking price. When you're in London, it's never hard to find great art to visit at the Victoria & Albert Museum, the Tate Modern the British Museum or the Royal Academy of Arts. Put the London Transport Museum on your list as well. Its "Poster Art 150 -- London Underground's Greatest Designs" exhibition (through October 27) features art that everyone can understand. Gatsby's Gold Coast: 8 grand estates Venice There are other biennial international art exhibitions, but when people talk about "the Biennale," they're talking about Venice. This being an odd-numbered year, the city is preparing the 55th Venice Biennale -- a nearly six-month-long festival (June 1 to November 24) with pavilions and art installations throughout the city. An architecture Biennale runs in even-numbered years. The Biennale seeps into every nook and cranny of the city, and the year won't be the only odd thing about it. For artists, the chance to represent their countries at the Venice Biennale can be a career-making moment. The path to greatness isn't easy, however, and neither is the art, which is typically conceptual, avant-garde and often (not to put too fine a point on it) just plain weird. Of the 88 nations represented by national pavilions, 10 are exhibiting for the first time. One is Bahamian artist Tavares Strachan whose installation includes a re-enactment of Robert Peary's 1909 expedition to the North Pole. The installation by Vincent J.F. Huang, representing Tuvalu (another first-time participant) involves suicidal penguins. Sarah Sze will represent the United States with an installation called "Triple Point." Chinese artist Ai Weiwei is one of four international artists who will create the installation in the German pavilion. At times, it can seem that the Biennale is inescapable. Whether that's good or bad depends on your taste. If, after seeing the newest of the new, you're longing for a cleansing immersion in classical or decorative art, the 11 museums of the Fondazione Musei Civici Venezia will satisfy you. Basel, Switzerland When it comes to art fairs that truly put their cities on the map, Art Basel tops the list. In 1970, three Basel gallery owners joined forces and invited their "gallerist" colleagues to Basel to exhibit the works of their current clients. Ninety galleries from 10 countries exhibited, more than 16,000 people attended, and with that one bold move, Basel became a modern and contemporary art pilgrimage destination. The 2012 Art Basel saw 300 galleries from 36 countries exhibiting and more than 65,000 curators and collectors attending. It's a happening -- and no one who's passionate about contemporary art would miss it. Art Basel is limited to 20th and 21st century art, and the emphasis is on the new. So, yes, you'll see Warhol and the occasional Leger, but you're more likely to encounter Cindy Sherman, Phyllida Barlow, Edward Ruscha, and Takashi Murakami among the offerings (and possibly among the attendees). In addition to the gallery exhibitors, there are installations of site-specific artworks open to the public free of charge in the Art Parcours section of the fair. The next Art Basel takes place June 13-16, 2013. With 40 museums to serve a population of around 165,000, Basel rightly claims the title of Switzerland's culture capital. Recently, Kunstmuseum Basel has been welcoming crowds for its excellent Picasso retrospective (through July 21). In nearby Weil am Rhein, Germany, the Vitra Design Museum is celebrating the work of American architect Louis Kahn (through August 11). Just as thrilling to locals and sports fans alike, the local soccer team, FC Basel, was the defending Swiss champion until they were defeated on Monday by Zurich-based club Grasshopper for the Swiss Cup title. Miami Beach, Florida It's not really cheating to include Art Basel Miami Beach on this list. Yes, the show is an offshoot of the original in Switzerland, but as it approaches its 12th year, Art Basel Miami Beach has earned its stripes in the art community -- and not merely because it gives everyone an excuse to visit Florida in the winter. (The even newer Art Basel Hong Kong kicks off its inaugural show this month, from May 23 to 26.) Held at the Miami Beach Convention Center, Art Basel Miami Beach features more than 200 exhibitors showcasing the work of some 4,000 artists and competition to be included is fierce -- close to 700 galleries applied to show at Art Basel Miami Beach last year. As at the original Art Basel, the focus here is on the new, but in Miami Beach, there's emphasis on artists and galleries from the United States and Latin America. The Art Nova and Art Positions sections of the fair showcase recent works, and young and emerging artists. The Art Public section, organized in cooperation with the Bass Museum of Art, places art installations in Collins Park. The next Art Basel Miami Beach takes place December 5-8. Miami and Miami Beach have a number of private art collections open to the public. The Rubell Family Collection is among the world's most respected private collections, featuring works by top 20th century artists and burgeoning contemporary artists. The Margulies Collection at the Warehouse includes works by Olafur Eliasson, Sol LeWitt, Willem de Kooning and Richard Serra. And in 2009, Carlos and Rosa de la Cruz opened the de la Cruz Collection Contemporary Art Space to showcase their collection of contemporary art.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/30/travel/most-remote-islands/index.html	travel	World's 7 most dangerous and remote islands - CNN.com	2013/01/30	Wednesday Jan 30 12:55:19 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Idiotic TV shows and all the latest apps bumming you out on the 21st century? Ready for some "me time" on the world's remotest islands? Forget golden sands and swaying palms -- the reality of solitude is different as these terrifyingly distant landfalls demonstrate. Tristan da Cunha  1,750 miles from South Africa The British island group of Tristan da Cunha stands profoundly alone in the South Atlantic. The nearest landfall is South Africa, 1,750 miles east, and to the west, South America is more than 2,000 miles. It's the world's most remote inhabited island chain -- so precariously occupied that when a volcanic vent erupted in 1961, the whole population was evacuated to England. Reaching Tristan da Cunha: This is no easygoing excursion. To quote the official website, "There are no package tours for independent travelers, no hotels, no airport, no holiday reps, no night clubs, no restaurants, no jet skis nor safe sea swimming." All visitors need to clear their arrivals in advance through the Island Council, and they also need to obtain a police certificate. (A 40-day wait is typical.) There are around 10 sailings a year from Cape Town, South Africa, and Namibia, each taking five to six days to reach the islands; it costs $800-$1,500 for a round trip. A list of available ships can be found on the official website: www.tristandc.com. Bear Island  400 miles off Europe's north coast Bjornoya, better known as Bear Island, is the southernmost island in the Arctic archipelago of Svalbard, 400 miles north of mainland Europe -- but only on paper, given that it's almost 150 miles south of the Norwegian island chain with which it's lumped. It's been a nature reserve since 2002 and has a lively history of failed occupation -- hard to believe for a place of barren cliffs, near-zero precipitation and risk of leaks of radioactive material from the nearby wreck of a nuclear submarine. Reaching Bear Island: Getting to the heart of Svalbard is a relatively simple matter -- there are daily flights from Oslo and Tromso to Svalbard's capital, Longyearbyen, on the west coast of Spitsbergen. Now it gets tricky. Research vessels infrequently call on Bear Island (the Norwegian Polar Institute makes an occasional appearance), while individually chartered boats and the occasional adventure cruise (such as this one from Polar Quest) haul in the remaining visitors. Bouvet  1,000 miles from Antarctica Tristan da Cunha is the remotest inhabited island in the world -- now, welcome to its uninhabited, far bleaker counterpart. Its cliffs are sheer. It's almost entirely covered by a glacier. In winter, its seas are pack ice. And its nearest neighbor is Antarctica, 1,000 miles to the south. In short, idyllic. Reaching Bouvet: The entire island is a nature reserve -- so unless you can make a compelling case for visiting, you'll be blocked by Norwegian authorities. Get permission, and it's now a simple matter of finding a research vessel, quickly mastering a valuable skill such as arctic geological surveying or marine biology and then getting someone to land you via helicopter. (There are no ports or harbors.) If all else fails, try becoming an amateur radio enthusiast: In 1990, a multinational expedition of operators spent 16 days on the island. Bishop Rock  30 miles from England Regarded by Guinness as the world's smallest island with a building on it, Bishop Rock stands at the end of Britain's Isles of Scilly, where coastal waters give way to the fury of the Atlantic. In 1847, engineers started building an iron lighthouse there -- and it washed away in a storm. Its extraordinary successor, first lit in 1858, stands to this day. Reaching Bishop Rock: Visiting the most southwesterly point in Britain is surprisingly easy -- the St. Mary's Boatsmen's Association runs day trips. But as Martin Hesp notes, even on a "calm" day you're in for serious chop. Boreray  60 miles off mainland Scotland Love the Scottish islands, but want something with a little more bite? Head west of the Outer Hebrides, and you'll find the archipelago of St. Kilda, 40 miles into the Atlantic. It's one of Scotland's five World Heritage sites, with a main island that was abandoned in the 1930s when crops failed. Imagine the surprise of archaeologists when they found that one of the least hospitable islands, Boreray, was occupied in prehistoric times. Reaching Boreray: Since Boreray comes under the protection of the National Trust for Scotland, you need its permission to visit. Then? Lots of time and lots of luck -- with a rugged shoreline and savage sea swell, this isn't an island built for landings. According to one guide, more people have reached the summit of Everest than have landed at Boreray since the National Trust took ownership in 1957. North Sentinel Island 400 miles from Myanmar North Sentinel is one of the 572 islands making up the Andaman chain in the Indian Ocean's Bay of Bengal. It's surrounded by dangerous reefs, but North Sentinel is intimidating because of its inhabitants. The Sentinelese want nothing to do with the modern world and have repeatedly rebuffed attempts to make peaceful contact. Reaching North Sentinel Island: You're kidding, right? If the above description didn't put you off, this article about a pair of fishermen who strayed onto the island certainly should. Rockall  270 miles from Ireland If you think Boreray sounds forbidding, try sailing 187 miles west of it. Rockall is the tip of an extinct volcano reaching 20 meters (about 65 feet) above sea level, in seas with waves recorded as high as 29 meters (95 feet). In 1955, the British Empire, in its final territorial acquisition, seized Rockall -- allegedly due to fears the Soviets would build a missile battery on it. Reaching Rockall: In the words of the recently minted Rockall Club, "visiting Rockall is difficult, completely weather dependent and not cheap." Your best bet is contacting Kilda Cruises and arranging a tailor-made excursion. Or you could sail there, lash yourself to the rock and claim it as your very own micronation -- but you wouldn't be the first.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/28/living/parents-adoption-older-kids-photo-shoot/index.html	living	Giving older kids in foster care a new look for adoption - CNN.com	2014/04/28	Monday Apr 28 11:24:56 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter.  (CNN) -- At 16, Deon just about stopped dreaming. The teen, born and raised mainly in Yakima, Washington, has been in and out of foster care since he was 5. Every time it looked like he might finally be adopted and find a permanent home, his hopes were dashed. "You start to feel numb and depressed," said Deon, admitting that last year he "kind of gave up" ever thinking a family would want him. "You lose hope ... and you think ... I have a few more years to go of this. What's going to happen to me?" he said during an interview. At 18, children in foster care essentially age out of the system. State agencies might offer them services such as job skills training or help building resumes, but they ultimately need to find a way to take care of themselves. "It's pretty frightening for them because they really are just pretty much on their own," said Amber Louis, Recruitment and Outreach Specialist for the Northwest Adoption Exchange in Seattle. An idea is born  While Deon was giving up, Jennifer Loomis, an acclaimed maternity and family photographer, was getting curious. A friend of hers had adopted a child. Since she and her boyfriend of four years didn't have any kids, she thought they should consider adopting as well. So, she went online, visiting sites that showcased children to adopt. "I was so blown away by how bad the photos were that I thought, 'Oh my God, these photos don't show these kids at all,' " said Loomis. "I can't get a sense of who these kids are." READ: Teen orphan's impassioned speech: 'Adopt me' As someone who tries to give back to her community as much as possible, Loomis thought surely she could carve out a couple of days to do a free photo shoot to create better pictures for the children. "And so I sent an e-mail that night ... I said, 'Hi, this is really random but I'm a photographer in Seattle and I was looking through your site and I really feel like you guys need better photos,' " she told me with a laugh, remembering the directness of her note. Amber Louis of the Northwest Adoption Exchange received Loomis' e-mail and jumped at the opportunity. "I see so many kids with photos that just don't do them justice," said Louis. "I think any photo that we can put together that shows their personality a little bit more is really helpful. ... I think it also increases the likelihood that an adoptive parent is going to stop and take a look when they are just scrolling through the pages of photos." Strike a pose  Loomis teamed up with another photographer, Rocky Salskov, and received donations from friends and clients, including food, balloons, even a small trampoline, to use for the photo shoot. The goal? To show the "sensitive, vulnerable side of these kids," said Loomis. "I wanted photos where you could look into their eyes and see into their soul a little bit better, where you could be like, 'Wow, Deon, what a guy,' " she said. READ: International adoptions decline as number of orphans grows Deon was one of seven children in foster care, from age 9 through 17, chosen for the two-day photo shoot. "I got really into it. I started posing, and there was one part where they had the trampoline there and that was so fun. You jump up in the air and strike a pose," he said. "It was really, really cool." Louis said she had targeted kids like Deon who she thought needed new photos. "You just cross your fingers and hope that ... a photo will catch (someone's) eye and they'll inquire." 'A burning thing in my heart' Joanna Church of Oak Harbor, Washington, which is on Whidbey Island, remembers being at a church service as a young girl, and hearing about how children are less likely to be adopted as they get older and how older children in foster care are at greater risk for homelessness and incarceration once they age out of the foster care system. They are also at greater risk of unemployment, pregnancy and suffering from poor health, according to research. "And so from a really young age ... it just was a burning thing in my heart that I just knew it was something I wanted to do someday," said Church, who works with the Canadian National Defense and helps military families living on Whidbey Island. After trying for some time to have biological children, Church approached her husband, Sean Vaillancourt, a sonar operator for the Canadian Navy, with the idea of adopting an older child in the foster care system. Vaillancourt remembers feeling unsure about whether they should take such a life-changing step. READ: Bringing Richard home, the story of a crowd-funded adoption  "I was nervous going into it because you just don't know what you're about to get ... like, 'Am I going to be borrowing trouble? Am I going to be a good father?' " said Vaillancourt. After thinking about how much they had in their lives and how much they could give back, he decided to go forward but remained anxious. Sparkly, happy eyes With her husband's support, Church headed online to look for children hoping for a home. She saw Deon's picture on a different website and went right past it, she said. 'It wasn't a good picture. It was grainy. ... It did not capture me at all." But when she saw Deon on the Northwest Adoption Exchange website, which showcased the pictures that Loomis and Salskov had taken, she stopped. "You saw ... personality in the face, like you saw it coming off the page, and it was enough to get us to stop and open that profile and look at it, and want to get to know Deon better," said Church. When I asked her what she saw in those pictures, she said Deon's "sparkly happy eyes." OPINION: Why adoption jokes hurt  Amber Louis remembers the phone call. "When I heard that there was this family interested, I kept my fingers and toes crossed," she said. Photographer Loomis, who is due to give birth in July, smiled when she heard the news. "This is exactly what I hoped for even though I wasn't sure it would happen. Photographs can be really powerful when they are authentic and genuine." When Deon learned a family was interested in him, he was excited but his guard remained up. "I thought it was too good to be true because I've had that happen to me where I'd go for a little bit and then I'd come back, and so the fact that somebody actually wants me is pretty cool." In October, Deon moved into Joanna and Sean's home and then they started the process of adopting him. They expect his adoption to become final next week and are planning a big family party to celebrate. Joanna and Sean are also helping Deon get Canadian citizenship, because they will be moving to Victoria, British Columbia in August. No matter where they live, they say they are committed to making sure Deon remains connected with his biological family, including a great grandmother who has been his primary care provider throughout this life. "They've really given me a new look on life," said Deon, referring to Joanna and Sean. "Instead of feeling just like that I'm all alone, I actually feel like I have somebody there for me." "I think that's the most rewarding thing is just trying to be there for somebody else," said Vaillancourt. Raising awareness  Church has become a passionate advocate for children in foster care, hoping her story will help raise awareness about how many kids are waiting for homes and how life-changing adoption can be for them. As of November of last year, there were nearly 400,000 children in the United States in foster care. "There's just such a need, there (are) just so many great kids out there," she said. READ: Overseas adoptions rise -- for black American children  To people who might be afraid to adopt an older child thinking they will come with grown-up issues to contend with, Church argues that biological children come with big question marks, too. "Well, you just don't know what kind of kid you're going to get," she said people tell her. "And my response is always, you (don't) know what kind of kid you're going to get when you birth them." Saving a life  For Church's husband, the experience is all about giving a kid a chance. "We've all had our chances, from our parents, from somebody looking out for us, and these (kids) have nobody looking out for them," said Vaillancourt. Before the couple decided to adopt Deon, he didn't do that well in school and thought the military might be his only option. Now his grades are up, and he's running track for his high school, learning to drive, getting excited to travel to Canada and thinking about other careers, including one in the military. "We get the privilege of helping a kid discover who he is, what he likes, what his strengths are and what he can be truly passionate about in life," said Church in a follow-up e-mail. When you give someone a chance, it can change their life forever, Deon said. "They could actually play a part in the community and do something with (themselves), rather than end up in jail or even worse, dead," he said. "You are basically saving a life." Would you consider adopting an older child? Chime in below in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter and CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/06/living/other-mothers-relate-irpt/index.html	living	Mother's Day praise for our 'other mothers' - CNN.com	2014/05/06	Tuesday May 6 12:05:24 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- I had absolutely no right to cry over the death of Mrs. Howard. She wasn't family, and I hadn't seen her in more than 20 years. That didn't stop me from crumpling onto the couch and howling like a kitten hurled from a moving car when I heard the news last year. Between the damp, snotty sobs, I wracked my brain to figure out why word of Mrs. Howard's death had struck me so squarely. I hadn't kept in touch with my mother's friend once I'd graduated from high school and fled my unhappy hometown life. I poked at the space her loss had left, like examining the socket where a tooth was once firmly lodged. She'd had a dog, Piper, of which I was quite fond. She'd let me practice my piano lessons on her electric organ, and that was awfully nice. She'd taken me to the mother-daughter Girl Scout dinner...oh... That was the raw nerve causing the ache. She'd filled in during at least one of many school-sanctioned mother-daughter outings when my mom was unable. It's what lots of sisters, aunts, friends, neighbors, teachers do when they see a child in need of care and comfort. And Mrs. Howard did it for me. My mother was and is unwell in ways I do and do not understand. It has been this way as long as I can remember. It's not her fault; and it just simply is. And so I've been blessed with women -- like Mrs. Howard, my mother's twin sister and my own sister -- who gracefully slipped in to fill the cracks as much as I'd let them. I never asked these women to step in -- mothers hold a vaunted role in our social structure, and you go with the one you're given. No matter your circumstance, as a daughter it can sometimes feel like a betrayal to seek the care of another woman. One of the subtle gifts these other mothers give is making it so a child -- of any age -- never has to ask. When a child's struggles and scars are visible, sympathy is the immediate impulse. I recall walking past a classroom where our gentle-voiced hummingbird of a homeroom teacher was showing my friend Melissa how to sew buttons on shirts. She had lost her brother and her mother to cancer in the course of a few, cruel years. While we, Melissa's friends, fumbled for the words and actions that wouldn't rip the wound wider, an army of women knit themselves around the motherless girl to bear her into womanhood as best they could. While none of them could ever fully mend the ragged edge left by the loss of her mother, these women taught Melissa to cook and sew and shop for bras and inhabit the turbulent body of a girl entering adolescence. And over time, one of them finally fell so deeply into the rhythms of care, she became a permanent part of the family -- as Melissa's stepmother. A childhood friend I'll call Janet, so far as she would have any of us believe, sprung fully formed from the earth and as hard as bedrock around the heart. Her mother had bailed on the family when Janet was a very small child, leaving a weird and wounded pair behind in the rubble. But where Janet toughened, her father crumbled, and suddenly at some point in our teenage years, home wasn't a safe and stable place for her to be. Knowing she'd never ask, our friend Tina's mother simply made an executive decision: Janet, you live here with us now. There are rules to our home and you will follow them, but now it is your home, too. When iReporter Shawn Fontenot Yujuico was 17, she and her mother were hit head-on by a drunken driver. She survived, but her mother did not. To add insult to grievous injury, Yujuico and her brothers were sent to live with her father and stepmother, Shirley Fontenot, with whom she'd always clashed. "My mother's death made it hard to accept my stepmother. My younger brothers and I did the classic 'You are not my mom' routine, and we compared the two of them endlessly," she writes. Fontenot had three children of her own from a previous marriage and could have concentrated all her affection on them and her husband. Instead, she and Yujuico's father did something extraordinary for the sake of their blended family: they remained married, but moved into separate houses to raise their children until all of them had graduated and moved out. Yujuico explains, "They managed to get together on weekends here and there. And from time to time, they brought us all together and we began to soften. She just flat out loved us. She loved us over our brattiness, our 'You are not Mother,' over our heartbreak. She didn't love us conditionally, she loved us with her whole heart." And years later, when Yujuico asked Fontenot why and how she'd found the strength to embrace angry stepchildren who were shoving her away at every turn, her answer was simple: "Because you were children and I was a grownup. That's what grownups are supposed to do. I knew you were hurting." But the need isn't always so clear-cut. iReporter Heather Gornick Jorgensen and her brother were fed, warm and clothed -- but hunger isn't always a physical thing. Their teenage mother was still going about the business of growing up, herself, when they were born. While her children's biological needs were met, Jorgensen's mother simply didn't yet have the level of maturity necessary to sustain the souls of her children, too. Her maternal grandmother, Toni, took the nurturing role. "The most important lesson I learned from my grandmother is that every child deserves unconditional love," writes Jorgensen. "While I was filled with insecurities and doubts, she was the one person who made me feel like I was perfect exactly as I was." Now in her 80s, Jorgensen's grandmother has been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, and Jorgensen is terrified -- of losing one of the most important people in her life and also of her suffering. She is also ready to return the favor, love and lessons her other mother taught her throughout the years. "I am grateful for the remaining opportunity I have to tell her that I love her, too," Jorgensen said. "Unconditionally." And this Sunday, I will send my own mother flowers, with a note telling her that I love her, and thanking her for all that she has done for me. She is my mother, and that's what a daughter does on Mother's Day. But that won't be the only bouquet I send.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/09/living/popular-baby-names-2013-parents/index.html	living	Most popular baby names of 2013: Noah and Sophia - CNN.com	2014/05/09	Friday May 9 11:02:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Michael and Jacob, your reign has ended. In 2013, for the first time since 1960, a new name unseated Michael or Jacob as the most popular for newborn boys. That's according to the Social Security Administration, which releases the list of most popular baby names each year. The new king's name? Noah. Sophia held the top spot for girls for the third year in a row, though Sofia with an "f" is crawling up the list: The latter reached its highest spot ever, at No. 13, the Social Security Administration said. Parents submit their babies' names when applying for Social Security numbers when the children are born. The names tend to reflect pop culture's influence on trends. The fastest riser for girls in 2012 was Arya, the name of a beloved character in the "Game of Thrones" series on HBO. In 2013, Jayceon and Daleyza made the biggest jumps in popularity in the top 1,000. Jayceon rose from 1,051 to 206 from 2012 to 2013, while Daleyza leaped from 3,715 to 585. The fastest riser for boys, Jayceon, is the birth name of the rapper known as The Game. He has a reality series on VH1, "Marrying The Game," which follows his life as a rapper and father of three. The show premiered in late 2012 and started having an effect on naming trends last year, the agency said. Daleyza's rise might have resulted from the influence of a popular Spanish-language reality TV series, "Larrymania," which airs on mun2, the agency said. Daleyza is the young daughter of Larry Hernandez, an American regional Mexican singer who's the star of the show. Rounding out the Top 10 names for boys were Liam, Jacob, Mason, William, Ethan, Michael, Alexander, Jayden and Daniel. The other top names for girls were Emma, Olivia, Isabella, Ava, Mia, Emily, Abigail, Madison and Elizabeth. Would you pick any of the names in the Top 10 lists? Tell us in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving with the hashtag #CNNparents or on CNN Living's Facebook page.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/01/living/promposal-pressure-proms/index.html	living	'Promposal' pressure intense for teens - CNN.com	2014/05/01	Thursday May 1 10:25:46 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Abby Rodgers walked out to her date's car and found roses, a teddy bear and a card sitting in the passenger's seat. Inside the card was the million-dollar question: Will you go to prom with me? The 17-year-old high school senior was touched. Everyone at her all-girls private school in suburban Philadelphia was hoping for some sort of "promposal," the act of inviting someone to prom in an elaborate fashion, often involving props, dancing flash mobs or maybe even police or actor Bryan Cranston. In the moment, Rodgers said yes, "because it was such a nice gesture and he was so sweet and brave to go through with it." Later that evening, when she had a chance to process what had happened, she realized she didn't actually want to go with him. "I realized that prom is more of a couples atmosphere," she said. "I didn't want to be there with someone I was not in a close relationship with." While prom is a great excuse to dress up, party with friends and mark the passage of another school year, the annual rite of passage also carries a lot of pressure -- to look perfect, arrive in style and have the ideal date on your arm. Promposals can add to the pressure, becoming almost as important as prom itself and raising expectations for young men and women, especially when they get posted on social media for all to see. Sure, some promposals can be thoughtful, charming or downright heartwarming. They can teach teens to take healthy risks and nurture their romantic side in the hookup-culture era. But, as with anything, it's all about intention. "As promposals have become more elaborate and public, so, too, does the potential for increased humiliation and social pressure," said Jarrod Chin, director of training and curriculum of Northeastern University Sport in Society, a nationwide youth mentoring program that focuses on violence prevention and healthy relationships. "As promposal clips go viral, more and more young people think that you need to create these elaborate schemes to ask someone to prom and the reality is that it should be just a fun event for young people to dance and celebrate." Going all out and all in What used to be a potentially awkward phone call or hallway conversation is becoming an extremely public ceremony with high stakes. For some girls (and, even some boys), not getting a promposal is their worst nightmare. And yet, being approached with flowers in the hallway can be a letdown, especially if a friend was serenaded in a flash mob. For others, these grandiose public gestures put invitees on the spot, forcing them to accept even if they don't want to for fear of being perceived as mean or stuck up. Opinion: The damaging message of proms Boys also face pressure to be creative and do whatever it takes to get a yes. That's the whole point, after all. Sometimes, the effort comes from a genuine desire to make the invitee happy and have fun doing it. Other times, the point really is to force a yes. Massachusetts high school senior Sam Casey has seen it go both ways. Friends in relationships have staged promposals for the fun of it. He's also seen classmates do them in front of invitees' families to get a yes where they probably would not have received one otherwise. "It takes a lot for a guy to put himself out there for a girl, and they want to do everything they can to make sure they're not humiliated," he said. "By doing it in a special way, or publicly showing that he really wants to go with that person, 99% of the time the girl will say yes." Either way, it can be a source of stress for both sides, Casey said. "I think it's gotten to the point that if you don't do it, you'll have a hard time finding a date," he said. If the answer is no, the emotional fallout can be damaging, Chin said. Programs such as Sport in Society's Mentors in Violence Prevention work with teens nationwide on how to have mature conversations with potential love interests and how to deal with a breakup or rejection. "If their identity could potentially be challenged by a 'no' to prom, we need to provide young men with the skills and ability to handle what could be a really embarrassing and traumatic public refusal," Chin said. That's where parents and adults come in, he said, to talk about realistic expectations around prom dating in general. "As adults, we shouldn't minimize promposals or teen relationships as puppy love or harmless crushes," he said. "Instead, we should view (them) as the first steps in developing intimate relationships, and how they handle them sets the stage for more complicated situations, like long-term dating, breakups, marriage and divorce." Testing the waters Not all promposals are bad or ill-intentioned. To avoid potential embarrassment or hurt feelings, teens often put out feelers among friends to see if their potential date is interested. In best-case scenarios, the person knows what's coming; it's just a matter of how and when, said University of Pennsylvania freshman Ria Desai. "I didn't feel any pressure to say yes because I already knew he was going to ask me," said Desai, who accepted a promposal in 2012 from a close friend during dance class. "In that way it was fun because I didn't know how he was going to ask me; it was a surprise." Promposals get iffy when the other person has no clue as to what's coming, she said. In those situations, some girls say yes in the moment but then later turn down the guy in private. The alternative of public rejection can be worse for the girl, Desai wrote in a 2012 blog post for SPARK Summit, a girl-fueled activist movement that challenges media portrayals of women. "Turning him down marks her as a 'huge bitch,' a label she doesn't deserve in any way. Yes, rejecting him will hurt his feelings, but doesn't every girl deserve the chance to make the decision that she wants to make?" she wrote. Further raising the stakes, though, is the "necessity" of capturing the event as a picture or video so it can be shared on social media, said Ohio State University freshman Melinda Vercollone, whose 2013 promposal came in the form of a "prom" sign underneath the hood of a friend's car. Her twin sister got asked when a boy showed up at their home shirtless on a moped with roses in his mouth while his friends filmed the whole thing. "The filming was important; it's sort of a necessity to put something on Facebook or Instagram so everyone will know who asked who and when and how. It's also critical that everyone watches the video so the next boy doesn't accidentally copy a proposal that has already been done," Vercollone said. "I remember being so happy that I was asked to prom, but also so disappointed that no one had been there to see it or to take a cute picture of us and post it on Facebook." The pressure to couple up Rodgers, the suburban Philadelphia teen, has nothing against promposals, especially among friends and couples. They have great potential to be sweet or thoughtful when done the right way. That's what caught her off guard about her date's promposal. They knew each other through mutual friends, but she knew in her heart that she did not want to bring someone she was not serious about to prom. She discovered this at her junior prom, when she brought a guy she didn't know well because she didn't want to be the only person without a date. They didn't really hit it off. "I realized I would rather go alone or with my friends," she said. This year, Rodgers faced pressure from various corners to bring someone. Even her grandparents offered to attempt to set her up with a busboy from their favorite restaurant. "It's almost taboo at my school to go alone." Inspired by a friend who decided not to bring a date, Rodgers texted her date two weeks after his promposal and told him she changed her mind. He took it well, she said, and he found another date for his prom. Rodgers ended up going to hers without a date last week. She had a great time dancing and posing for pictures with her friends, including others who went alone. "It was amazing. I have no regrets," she said. "To girls who get promposed to and don't know what to do, I would just say you only have one prom. Think about what's going to make you happy and remain true to who you are."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/15/living/intersex-dating-relate/index.html	living	Intersex intimacy: Busting myths and finding love - CNN.com	2014/04/15	Tuesday Apr 15 01:02:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- There's a vocabulary of protection used around the intersex community -- of "escape" from sex assignment surgery to normalize their genitals, of PTSD and survivorship, of guilt from some whose bodies remain intact. There's also a shared experience of shame, secrecy and disconnection borne of being treated like a physical mistake. They arrived in the world with genetic mutations that affect them at intimate levels, and were taught to believe, often since birth, that their very existence is a condition that needs to be corrected. The path to romantic connection with another human can feel isolated and impassible. The risk, impossible. But it doesn't have to be. Activists like Bo Laurent, Jim Ambrose and Pidgeon Pagonis have made it their mission to guide people with intersex traits and differences of sex development, known as DSD, toward understanding their own worth in the world. They're demanding visibility and justice in a culture that has long mythologized, marginalized and misunderstood their bodies. And some of them are hoping to find love with someone who truly sees them. "It's hard for people to wrap their head around what exactly is going on. It gets everywhere -- it's nothing but sprawl. It's not limited to the bedroom," says Ambrose, a writer and the co-founder of The Interface Project, a site that collects and shares personal stories of people living with an intersex condition or DSD. So let's start in the classroom with a quick lesson on what intersex is not: transgender, though the two are often erroneously lumped together or the "hermaphrodite" of lore and porn, possessed of fully functioning (and physically impossible) male and female genitalia. It's also not especially uncommon. A visible difference of sexual anatomy occurs in 1 out of every 1,500 to 2,000 births, according to statistics from the World Health Organization. Medically speaking, intersex is defined as a congenital anomaly of the reproductive and sexual system. Katrina Karkazis, a senior research scholar at the Center for Biomedical Ethics at Stanford University, says that in most cases, people have a genetic mutation that affects development of sex organs. This might be evident at birth, later in life or not at all. For example, in the case of people with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome, these women have XY chromosomes and testes. Their bodies produce testosterone, but because their bodies don't respond to it, the genitalia don't masculinize, and they don't develop masculine secondary sex characteristics such as increased muscle mass, a deeper voice and facial hair. "They have XY chromosomes and testes and you wouldn't know that at birth because they are born with female genitalia," Karkazis says. From the 1950s until recently, parents of babies born with atypical or ambiguous genitalia were generally presented one option: genital surgery. This is most often done to present the child as female because of doctors' beliefs that it's an easier outcome to achieve with available medical techniques. This often entails surgeries to remove testes, reduce organs that might present as a small phallus or an outsized clitoris, or add a vaginal cavity. To parents -- shocked and confused by anatomy they don't understand, and envisioning a life of otherness and romantic rejection for their newborn -- surgery to "normalize" can seem like the most loving course of action. In 1957, intersex rights pioneer Bo Laurent was born into a world of confusion. Medical professionals were "in a state of shock" for three days, unable to determine what sex she was, and her mother was kept sedated. Laurent was eventually labeled a boy, and her parents were dismissed from the hospital, unable to seek additional child care, lest their secret get out. When she was 1 years old, another doctor decided to change her sex assignment so she could be raised as a girl. "They performed a clitorectomy and they told my parents to move to another town and not tell anyone where they went and never tell me what happened," Laurent says. "All those things were so traumatizing, frightening and pain-producing for my parents that it made it hard for them to relate normally to me." Alienated from her parents, withdrawn from her peers and deeply disconnected from her medically numbed and scarred body, Laurent avoided romantic and intimate connection with partners well into her 20s. Then, she started to seek answers. The discovery of her intersex status finally offered a path into the world. Over the course of the past two decades, with her work as an activist, speaker and founder of the now-defunct Intersex Society of North America, Laurent has led others on a journey to connect body and soul -- their own and others'. "One of the things I'm proud of is that I think that I've helped to provide frameworks to talk about it, narratives that are now available to other people," Laurent says. 'Unequivocal visibility' Jim Ambrose is one of the people Laurent helped. Though he'd been surgically assigned as female as a baby, furthered by hormones and by additional surgeries his late teens, Ambrose, now 37, vividly recalls how different he felt from the other girls, even at an early age. "I remember the first girl in my class wearing a bra and I reacted exactly as every other boy in the class did," he says. "I was enamored and fascinated." Unconsciously, he knew that the interest didn't spring from girl-to-girl solidarity or a glimpse at his future. Watching a school-mandated sex-ed film about menstruation, he thought, "I don't think this is ever going to happen to me." It didn't, of course. Ambrose's mother disclosed the reason when he was 12 and estrogen treatments soon followed. Neither did he experience the sexual connections his peers were making. At 16, Ambrose -- still perceived as female by his peers -- had a girlfriend ("by default," he jokes, rather than a drive to romantically bond). He studiously kept her away from his intimate parts. In retrospect, it was out of self-protection. While the girlfriend never argued, she did confess to mutual friends that the distance "weirded her out." Word got back to Ambrose, and he was suddenly painfully aware that while he felt a deep detachment from his female-assigned body, it was no longer just of interest to his parents and doctors. It was now of interest to his peers -- and his future sexual partners. After all, that's what it had been surgically constructed for. "The guiding principle was pair-bonding with a man and to be even more specific, to make sure that I possessed a proper vessel for an erect penis," Ambrose says. "The end goal wasn't that I would be a sexually satisfied woman, or a person who was curious about other forms of sexuality. ... My personal sexual pleasure wasn't taken into account." Stanford's Karkazis sees this all too frequently in her work and friendships with members of the intersex community. "Imagine for a moment that you want to connect with someone sexually, and you feel nothing sexual in your genitalia. Or you feel pain. I know people who have tried everything under the sun and have even contemplated more surgery. Imagine this kind of searching," Karkazis says. "The door is closed before it's even opened. You can think you're so damaged that no one will be satisfied with you." But after Ambrose struck up a friendship with Laurent, he used her framework of disclosure to amplify attempts at connection. A sympathetic and proactive doctor agreed with him that the removal of breasts and vaginoplasty were medically necessary -- and the way to correct a wrong that had been done to him by the medical community. She started him on a regimen of compounded testosterone cream to correct bone density deficits that occurred when he stopped taking estrogen. While he hadn't consciously considered transitioning to a more male-presenting body before then, his physical response to the hormones was undeniable. "Almost immediately, I felt a difference," Ambrose recalls. "It's like when a hunter is walking slowly through the woods and he steps on a branch and it cracks and the deer pops its head up to see what's going on. What? What was that? My body was telling me, 'Hey, this shit is good. Let's do this. We're into this.' " A year later, when he was in his late 20s, he began taking testosterone injections and presenting as male in public. His psyche and body were more aligned than they had ever been before, and he had been dating women all along, but the transition ushered in a whole new set of insecurities. Ambrose says, "I was a man who didn't have the penis that everyone was going to expect. And by 'everybody' I mean that I was really focused on dating straight women. I wanted to date women who were going to desire me as a man. ... I wanted a woman to see me from across the room and say 'Yeah, I want to f*** that guy,' before they knew anything about me." He adopted Laurent's technique of presenting his story honestly and early, telling prospective partners, "I work at this bookstore, but mostly I do advocacy work and it sends me around the country and I organize and do workshops and I sit on committees and I do fundraising for this little organization and ... why do I do that? Well, because it happened to me." And it worked. A lot. Date after date after date was "a rousing success," according to Ambrose. "It puts me in a position of somebody who is being proactive about their life. One who is acting in defense of myself and others," he says. "To couch it that way informs the listener -- often a potential sexual partner -- that I care what you think, but I know enough about myself to know that if you want to perceive me as a victim, cry for me, be disgusted by me or get up and leave, you can do all of those things. "My happiness, self-awareness and ability to get up in the morning doesn't hinge on whether you want me to go home with you tonight." While Ambrose's most recent long-term relationship ended a few months ago, he grows increasingly comfortable in the body he now has, and steadfast in his attempts at romantic connection with the right woman. "I think there is a resilience gene. There are so many times when I could have packed it in, or subsisted on scraps. Or I could have chosen girlfriends who were bad for me or cruel or abusive, but I didn't," Ambrose says. "I need for them to see me as plainly and clearly as they possibly can. I need unequivocal visibility from my sexual partner." 'Tickling is my hurrah' Pidgeon Pagonis sought intimacy and found pain in its place. (Pagonis identifies as neither male nor female and uses the gender-neutral pronouns "they," "them" and "their" to describe themselves.) "I'm really persuaded by things, like the idea of what high school should be. I really wanted a high school experience and part of that was dating a boy and having sex with that boy," says Pagonis, now 28. At age 11, Pagonis was told that the genital surgery they had received as a child was to treat cancer, and the one they were about to receive was to fix a urine drip issue. In fact, the latter was to insert a vaginoplasty. At 16, Pagonis was dismayed by difficulty and pain during attempts at intercourse with a boyfriend. "I'd never had any dilation (which would have kept the passage open), so it was just a shock to my body. I left that moment being like 'That really hurt!' " Pagonis says. "But Cosmo (magazine) said it would get better. It didn't get better in terms of pleasure, but it got better in terms of not hurting as much every single time." Still, Pagonis soon came to associate almost any intimacy, including kissing, with the impending pain of penetration, and found any desire evaporate the moment they were touched. Alcohol and marijuana offered some distance from the ache, but ushered in a host of other issues, including a cycle of abusive partners and vulnerability to sexual assaults while blackout drunk. "I wanted to be so drunk that sex felt OK. I thought I'd feel less reserved and that sex would feel good. You strive to be normal when you know you're not normal. Instead of talking it through, I would just drink," Pagonis says. After a college professor lectured on the topic of intersex traits and DSD to a "psychology of women" class, something clicked. Pagonis walked across the street from their classroom at DePaul University, down into the hospital basement where, coincidentally, their own medical records were kept. There, Pagonis ripped open the shroud of shame and secrecy that had swaddled their body since the first surgery. The terms were unfamiliar -- "male pseudohermaphrodite" and "46 XY" -- but suddenly, so much made sense. Their mother confirmed and, after throwing their phone at the wall, Pagonis vowed to tell no one. But souls are loud and determined things. They seek and reach for connection despite all our best attempts at muffling them. Six months after the revelation, Pagonis started dating a woman to whom they disclosed the diagnosis. While the alignment of anatomy threw their physical differences into sharp relief -- "I still don't think my high school boyfriend knows I didn't have a clitoris," Pagonis likes to joke -- alternatives to penetrative sex opened up a whole new realm of connection. "These elements of intimacy are what I needed at the time," Pagonis says. "Tickling is my hurrah!" For now, the muting of sexual pleasure from the result of surgery and sexual trauma has proved a barrier to romantic pairing. Pagonis is flying solo, and attempting to find peace and pleasure in their own body with the help of a therapist. " 'Sex is 90% fiction and 10% friction!' " Pagonis quotes the therapist. "That stuck with me because when I was with people, I was always having fiction in my head and I thought this is because I'm messed up and I can't just get off from the person." Pagonis relies on wise words from Laurent, too. "She told me, 'Who cares? Think about whatever you need to. It's in your head and you're not hurting anybody. If you can get off, then good for you.' " "I let the shame of having a different body and not looking 'normal,' debilitate me," Pagonis says. "I needed that permission and Bo gave it to me." 'Love is like jumping off a cliff' Pagonis now works as Advocates for Informed Choice's youth leadership coordinator and a teen dating violence prevention coordinator, and firmly believes that doctors' and parents' lack of disclosure to intersexed children is as harmful as cosmetic surgery to conceal the physical differences. "If people would just be honest and talk to you about your body, you might still make the same decisions, but I might not have -- and I would have had someone to talk to and make healthier, safer choices," Pagonis says. Ambrose agrees: "I have yet to meet a parent who was intentionally trying to hurt their child. I have as much sympathy for my parents and my friends' parents as I do us. You perform these surgeries aimed to 'normalize' a child and then you expect the child to be quiet and not talk to anyone about it. You're going to color every aspect of the child's life, and your life." And at 57, Laurent herself is still learning the boundaries of her own worth and wonder. After the end of her marriage and a period of being single, she decided to try again, and was shocked to find herself loved and loving once more. Laurent found herself opening her heart to a younger woman who she met online and who had never heard of intersex conditions. "She wasn't familiar with those words or the story, but I did tell her about the clitorectomy. I was surprised and comforted at how well she took that," Laurent says. For all the people who Laurent has rowed to safety in her years of advocacy, it was a personal risk for her, and this woman could see that. She reached across the distance between them. As they were becoming more serious, she sent Laurent a quote she still remembers. "It read: 'Love is like jumping off a cliff,' " Laurent says. "'Your head says you're going to die, but your heart says, that's OK, you can fly.'" More resources: The Interface Project Advocates for Informed Choice Inter/Act Global Action for Trans* Equality Project I Am Enough Intersex Society of North America Organization Intersex International in the United States of America Brief Guidelines for Intersex Allies (PDF) Further reading and viewing: "XXXY" - documentary by Porter Gale and Laleh Soomekh "Silence = Death" - essay by Tamara Beck "Caught Between: An Essay on Intersexuality" Full-Frontal Activism: Intersex and Awesome "Fixing Sex: Intersex, Medical Authority, and Lived Experience" "Intersexion" - documentary  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/01/living/unmarried-companion-death-relate/index.html	living	When a boyfriend dies, does the grief mean less? - CNN.com	2014/04/01	Tuesday Apr 1 11:37:26 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Chris Doheny met Sarah Fox, he was uncharacteristically hopeful about the future -- a successful double lung transplant in June 2010 to help with his cystic fibrosis meant things were looking up, Fox says. She was also hopeful; Fox had recently been on the "the worst Internet date of all time" when she met the Georgetown University grad at a concert through mutual friends. But after two years of dating Fox, Doheny, 31, died in February 2013 due to complications from cystic fibrosis. "We had talked about a future, and I think that Chris knew more than I did that we didn't have one," Fox says. "I was maybe a little nave." Fox has one word to describe Doheny's death: devastating. Unmarried companions can face the same grief and desolation that a husband or wife does at the loss of a partner. But the suffering of a girlfriend or boyfriend may be minimized by others, who assume it shouldn't last so long or hurt so deeply -- as in, "Well, he was only your boyfriend." Fox says the "girlfriend" label has been a particular struggle after Doheny's death: "What do I call him now? He's not my ex-boyfriend because we never broke up, but he's also not my boyfriend." Fox recalls a co-worker telling her: "At least now you can move on and find someone else." Nancy Berns, a sociology professor at Drake University and author of "Closure: The Rush to End Grief and What It Costs Us," advises against starting any statement of sympathy with "at least." "They think they're trying to help by minimizing the pain, but it doesn't affirm that you're hurting -- and that I respect that you're hurting," Berns says. During Doheny's period of declining health, Fox sought out a grief counselor who specialized in dealing with a spousal death as the best viable option -- a step, she calls, "extremely helpful" as "it was very stressful to watch him deteriorate." Berns says grief is a normal, healthy response to a loss no matter the relationship, and things get murky if the depth of grieving becomes connected to how long a relationship endured or whether it was legally binding. She added that our culture also needs to eliminate the notion that grief ends. What's more helpful is learning to live with a loss: "Grieving helps us identify what we lost and express the love that we had." Losing a unmarried partner in the public eye can mean a greater level of scrutiny and a heightened set of expectations. The public wonders how a celebrity will respond to such a loss -- recent examples include Lea Michele after the death of her boyfriend and "Glee" co-star Cory Monteith and Mick Jagger and deceased fashion designer L'Wren Scott. In her first televised appearance after Monteith's death, Michele dedicated her Teen Choice Award to him. "For all of you out there who loved and admired Cory as much as I did, I promise that, with your love, we're going to get through this together," she said through tears. Berns says the heightened attention happens in part because other people's pain is uncomfortable, even taboo. We want a clean, clear statement about the loss and reaction from the surviving half of a well-known couple to sew up the narrative. Instead of trying to hurry the grieving process up or tiptoe around it, the public should allow people to grieve and speak in their own time. There are practical matters, too. Some unmarried partners leave clear instructions on how to include loved ones in family decisions after their passing, such as a last will, while some do not. The latter can leave a boyfriend or girlfriend adrift. Berns notes it is helpful for a grieving partner when the family allows him or her in on decisions such as funeral planning. She advises those who have lost a partner to make clear early on they want to be included in honoring their loved one. Fox says she had a good relationship with Doheny's parents and was able to help with his memorial. The couple had bonded over their love of reading, and Doheny left behind an unpublished novel. So Fox helped establish the Christopher Doheny Award at the New York Mercantile Library's Center for Fiction, which is granted to a writer who has dealt with a life-threatening illness firsthand or via a close relative or friend. Sometimes it helps to hold onto a tangible piece of a relationship. In September 2011,  Allen "Skip" Haughay Jr. and his horse Regal Bull were fatally struck by a pickup on the way to a party a half-mile away from his farm -- leaving behind his partner of almost three years, Abel Urbina. The two weren't married. They wanted to wait for Proposition 8, a voter-approved ballot measure that made same-sex marriage illegal in California, to be overturned. Haughay did not have a will, so his assets went to his mother, who did not want to keep the ranch that her son had filled with horses, pigs and donkeys. A few months before his death, Haughay was diagnosed with gastrointestinal cancer and said he wanted Urbina to take care of the animals should he die. Urbina ended up selling his place in downtown San Jose, California, and buying Haughay's three-acre property in nearby Morgan Hill -- along with all the animals -- to honor that wish. "And they're still there, they're still happy," Urbina says. Berns, the sociologist, says if you can embrace or reclaim a ritual or special place, such as the farm, it's a way of feeling connected that's more active than just sitting alone, being sad. For Fox, that meant carrying a tiny portion of Doheny's ashes along the Camino de Santiago, a 500-mile hike through Spain and France. As his health deteriorated, Doheny asked her to take his ashes along on the trek after he passed away because he regretted not being able to travel with her more. Berns says that moving forward -- whether entering a new relationship or just going out and having fun again -- is honoring the deceased loved one. Urbina says since he and Haughay weren't married, people had more gumption to ask when he would date again. "You have to move on when you're ready to move on," he says. "I need to move on because, knowing Skip, he would not have wanted me to curl up in a ball and cry for a whole year and be miserable." Fox says she and Doheny only broached the subject once. "It was really hard for Chris," she says. "He obviously wanted me to be happy, but he really wanted it to be with him." Have you dealt with the loss of a partner? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/15/living/flats-love-flat-shoes-style/index.html	living	Flats, a love letter to shoes - CNN.com	2014/05/15	Thursday May 15 08:23:17 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Kelci Stringer realized her days in high heels were numbered when her children began to walk. She struggled to keep up with them in her strappy stilettos and platform pumps, and the situation only worsened as they got older and needed to be shuttled around from school to soccer and myriad extracurricular activities. The Atlanta mother still loves heels for special occasions, but her daily routine calls for flats. Slippers, loafers and sneakers are part of her uniform but she struggled to find unique varieties at a decent price. When she decided to start her own business, the name "flats" sprang to mind while she was getting a pedicure. "I saw a void in the market that needed to be filled," Stringer said. "My father said to me, 'You've bought enough shoes so you ought to know something about them.'" Sure, heels will always be a mainstay of women's fashion. But flats are getting their due on the streets and the runway with more embellishment and detail, belying the common perception of a basic ballet flat.  Stringer's Buckhead boutique, "FLATZ" is full of variations: embroidered ikat loafers, faux pink snakeskin slippers, bright yellow jelly sandals and leather studded flip-flops. Located in a small shopping plaza among a deli, hair salon and shoe repair shop, FLATZ opened in October to cater to shoppers who don't want to sacrifice style for comfort. Business is picking up with summer around the corner as shoppers look for comfortable beach sandals or stylish walking shoes for sightseeing vacations. Some might say flats lack the appeal of a sky-high stiletto, but strutting around in comfort can be sexy, too. "I feel like wearing a pair of flats connotes a sense of low maintenance that men are typically drawn toward," said Leandra Medine, founder of the popular "Man Repeller" fashion blog that celebrates trends women love and men hate. "Of course, the purported argument against them and pro-heels is related to the sex factor. They're obviously the more conventionally 'attractive' choice." The return of a classic Flats are having a moment as mainstream fashion embraces menswear-inspired looks for women, with wing-tipped oxfords, embroidered loafers and smoking slippers gracing fall 2014 runway shows. Glamour Magazine recently started featuring flats in a #FlatsFriday Instagram post which also invites Instagrammers to share their favorite flats. On the popular style blog "View From The Topp" Kate Brien chronicles her daily outfits, paying tribute to a wide range of flats, from her beloved Birkenstocks and Clio sandals to tasseled loafers and colorful oxfords. Heels occasionally make an appearance, but "I'm rarely in heels during my day-to-day," she said. "I'll wear heels on occasion but flats are much more me," said Brien, who describes her look as "Parisian Tomboy/Messy Vogue." "I like shoes that are comfortable and classic. Of course interesting details and fun colors are always great, but my favorite pairs are ones that I know I will have forever." The basic ballet flat has been around for centuries, modeled after the dancer's ballet slipper as an alternative to the unwieldy heels and chopines of the Renaissance era. Their popularity waxed and waned over the years before French shoemaker Rose Repetto revived production of ballet slippers in the 20th century. French actor Brigitte Bardot is credited with bringing the classic "cendrillon" shoe to the masses after Repetto created it at her request for her to wear it in "...And God Created Women." Actor Audrey Hepburn is also thought to have contributed to the popularity of ballet flats after wearing them in "Funny Face." Women have been complaining about heels for as long as they've been wearing them. "We'll know that feminism has worked when a woman goes up to get a best actress Oscar wearing flat, comfortable shoes," author Caitlin Moran snarkily noted in her 2012 book, "How to be a Woman." "How much more fun we would be having if we could only stop being slaves to the torture stilts we insisted on wearing. We could then stand around and chat and laugh all night like the men ... and maybe even do a little bit of business." Opting for flats over heels might require a mental shift in women who've come to identify themselves by their footwear. 'Reprogramming' perceptions The typical customer at Atlanta's FLATZ boutique is in her mid-30s, someone who "knows what works for her and knows what she wants," owner Kelcie Stringer said. "She's not competing with anyone, or what's on TV," Stringer said. "I appreciate a customer who knows what she wants instead of my having to convince her of what she needs." Other shoppers tend to come in because they can no longer wear heels due to foot problems, or because they're unhappy with their body and want their shoes to be their statement piece, store manager Christina Mitchell said. Often, her job requires "reprogramming" their minds to make them understand that flats can be chic, she said. "Sometimes, when people think of flats, they say flats are boring," she said. "But they can have a lot of personality." When shopper Tanya Lewis visited the store this week, she was already a convert. Flats are her go-to footwear for work and socializing. Her mother, on the other hand, had just recently come around to them after leaving her job in banking. "When I was working I wore heels every day. I think you need them in corporate America," Lewis' mother said, declining to give her name. The pair left with a pair of gladiator sandals for Lewis, and loafers and pointed-toe slippers for her mother. "I'm veering more toward flats with age," she said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/29/living/women-hair-loss-alopecia-relate/index.html	living	Women with hair loss face emotional battles - CNN.com	2014/04/29	Tuesday Apr 29 07:39:12 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Prom night sends most teen girls on a dizzying quest for the perfect dress, accessories and hairstyle to make their ensemble complete. On her prom night, Jennifer DeFreece was harried by one simple detail: "I just wanted eyebrows for my prom pictures." When she was just a baby, DeFreece was diagnosed with alopecia totalis, an autoimmune disease that results in the total loss of scalp hair. By her 1st birthday, she'd lost all of her hair. "I was like Charlie Brown," says DeFreece, now 33 and living in Northridge, California. Alopecia is nondiscriminatory. It can occur in men and women at any age and is a strictly physical disease, but sufferers say it's also a disease of the spirit, exacting a devastating emotional toll in this world of silky shampoo commercials and Rapunzel fairy tales. For those who experience it, particularly women who often self-identify with the color and style of their locks, it's about learning to manage the disease and not be defined by it. They choose a way to self-present: wig, no wig, clean shaven or a little of each. DeFreece ventured into wearing wigs in kindergarten as the childish innocence of her peers grew more inquisitive and uncensored. She continued to do so throughout junior high. At the time, the wigs available were "very obvious," she says. Before then, being bald never seemed taboo; it was her normal. Then came sleepover age: A girl insisted DeFreece put a housecoat over the pillow where she would rest her head. To that girl, baldness was gross. In those years, DeFreece says she became more shy and hyperaware about what made her different. "I hated it. I would wish that my hair would grow back," DeFreece says. In high school, when she realized people might make fun of her anyway, she took one a giant leap toward self-awareness: She decided to ditch the hairpiece and embrace the beauty of bald. Brave middle schooler tells peers she's bald "I thought, 'Let them make fun of somebody with a medical condition, let's see what happens,' " she says. The response was mature: People backed off and even stood up for her. Learning to value yourself and not your hair According to the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, a big part of the coping process is about "learning to value yourself for who you are, not for how much hair you have or don't have." Sue McHale is a psychology lecturer at Sheffield Hallam University in England, and has extensively researched the psychological toll of the disease, including co-authoring the book, "Coping with Alopecia." "Baldness, for whatever reason, is associated firstly with aging and secondly with illness," McHale said in an e-mail. "So society is automatically shocked or fearful of this." McHale's co-researcher and husband, Nigel Hunt, has alopecia universalis, the rarest form of the disease, one that results in total loss of body hair. (The most common form of alopecia is alopecia areata, which causes the hair to fall out in patches.) When McHale found there was hardly any psychological research done on the disease, they dug in. "It opened up a floodgate of responses and many said that they felt no one had been listening to them for years," she says. It was no longer just a physical diagnosis. She says their research found that there was a perception from both sexes that it was worse for women; that it seemed more acceptable for men to appear bald. However, both men and women with alopecia aren't opting to go bald -- "it is forced upon them, so in that way, they respond to it very much in the same way," she says. Those who are balding or are born with a hairless pate can experience embarrassment, hopelessness, hastiness for a "quick fix," and, if a wig wearer, the fear that others might find out that their hair actually isn't their own. She found a man who didn't care about hair For Lauren Crawford, 29, that feeling came to a head on a first date in high school. After a few previous dates didn't handle her diagnosis so well, she decided to lay it all out on the table that very first night, warning him that she had something to confess. "'If you want to walk out the door, that's OK,'" she remembers saying. "Oh thank God," her date responded. "That's it?!" Crawford, of Macomb, Michigan, has been married to the man to whom she made that first-date confession for five years. Crawford, like DeFreece, received a diagnosis early on in life -- at 3 -- but didn't see more serious aspects of the disease, especially psychologically, until her senior year in high school. "I didn't think anything of it," she says. Seeing a bald woman wasn't out of her realm of experience; her grandmother was going through chemotherapy at the same time. As her hairline changed rapidly in her teen years, she sought solace in scrunchies and scarves. When those no longer did the job, she and her mom went wig shopping. Her friends at the time started to call her "Baldy" and tugged at her hair. She admits feeling like she would never get married and never have kids. Now, she has both -- and an unforeseen career as a hairdresser. "I always had a creative eye for hair; I was always creative in hiding my bald spots," says Crawford, who wears a wig every day, calling it "an accessory." For other women, Crawford has become an unlikely ally. She recounts how a woman came in heartbroken as the effects of chemotherapy laid her scalp bare. Crawford took her wig off and showed her true self; they wept together and talked through the change. "It's just hair," she remembers saying. 'For me to walk out bald, it's so hard' Vanessa McWilliams, 30, of Calgary is in a more transitional period -- often forgoing the wigs that were her safety blankets for more than 20 years. "I love who I am, but at the same time, for me to walk out bald, it's so hard because there's so much trauma growing up," she says, recalling jabs such as "baldy" throughout her teenage years. With the new hairless territory, she says she had to adapt to the occasional awkward moment of a stranger approaching her because they think she's sick. "You're healthy! There's nothing wrong with you, but society still has to look at you. It's so hard to hear there's nothing wrong with you. The mentality of it is still a mental battle. It's really tricky," she says. Unlike DeFreece and Crawford, who were too young at the time of their diagnosis to comprehend the condition, McWilliams didn't receive her diagnosis until adolescence. "From the date that I found my first bald spot (at age 9) until I was 17, I had a really big hatred for the word 'alopecia' and everything that it put me through," she says. McWilliams now operates Confident Curls, a mobile wig boutique specifically geared toward women who are coping with hair loss. Her epiphany: She's lived with this every single day and knows first-hand what people in the same situation need. "I wish at 9 years old I had known that it was OK. It's so simple. ... Everyone is dealt something they have to struggle with," McWilliams says. "Now, I know it isn't the worst thing that could happen to me." But there's always work to do. DeFreece calls those less-than-pretty-feeling days, as all people have, "an alopecia day." There are also upsides: "People will always remember you, and you can use that as an advantage," she says. She has met a network of women through organizations such as the National Alopecia Areata Foundation (DeFreece attends its annual conference every year) and social media, which has helped her adjust. When they get together, their lack of hair isn't the glaring beacon it is to others. "I'm not just Jennifer the bald girl. I'm Jennifer the marketing major. I'm Jennifer from California," DeFreece says.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/23/living/born-free-end-mother-child-hiv/index.html	living	Designers unite to end HIV transmission - CNN.com	2014/04/23	Wednesday Apr 23 03:26:19 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Every day in sub-Saharan Africa 700 children are infected with HIV, mostly through their mothers, according to the United Nations. Fortunately, with the right treatment most cases of mother-child HIV transmission are entirely preventable, a goal the international AIDS community is working to make a reality by 2015. To that end, the New York-based charity Born Free is teaming up with top names in the fashion and beauty industries to raise money to stop mother-child transmission of HIV once and for all. Born Free has recruited Vogue editor Anna Wintour along with 22 designers and models to each create unique wearable pieces from an exclusive print by African artist Wangechi Mutu. Proceeds from sales of the clothing will go toward getting lifesaving drugs to those who need them. Stella McCartney, Donna Karan, Tory Burch and Gisele Bundchen are just a few of the celeb mothers and designers who are participating. Shopbop, owned by Amazon, is exclusively selling the line, which launches Wednesday. Pieces cost $250 or less. "Born Free is an idea that came from a place of deep respect for the delicate cycle of life. How incredible to be able to work with gifted designers, who as mothers recognize what the devastating loss of a child could mean and how easily that loss can be avoided," said Mutu. Designers were given free rein to create with Mutu's prints. Each designer presented something for mother and child. Isabel Marant, known for her bohemian vibe, went with a micro-print on a peasant blouse. Jenna Lyons from J.Crew went with louche pants and a pleated girl's skirt. The effort is the brainchild of John Megrue, chairman of private equity firm Apax Partners, who was concerned with the spread of HIV to the smallest and most vulnerable people in sub-Saharan Africa. There are a number of private, public and international organizations on the ground in sub-Saharan Africa, fighting the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Megrue's vision was to see private sector charities like MAC AIDS and mothers2mothers join forces with organizations like UNAIDS and PEPFAR. Born Free was announced in November 2013 as an umbrella organization to raise money and distribute medicine where it's needed. With just one pill a day -- a combination of several anti-retroviral medicines -- a mother with HIV or AIDS can almost completely eradicate the risk of passing the disease on to her baby, according to Born Free. "I am thrilled that the fashion community has so generously added their time, talent and voice to our collective efforts to meet the serious, but achievable challenge of eliminating mother-to-child transmission of HIV by December 31, 2015," said Megrue. Born Free will raise money via sales of the clothing from Shopbop, donations, and Conde Nast magazine subscription fees in May and June. One hundred percent of proceeds will be donated to Born Free, and the MAC AIDS Fund will match up to $500,000 of all donations. The organization's aim is to work with governments within countries where the rate of mother-child HIV transmission is high to move toward solving the issue. "We've seen incredible advances in HIV treatment, but to end the epidemic, we need to ensure all at-risk pregnant women are tested for HIV, and if they are positive, they receive HIV treatment so their babies can be born HIV free," said Nancy Mahon, global executive director, MAC AIDS Fund.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/23/us/national-spelling-bee-fast-facts/index.html	us	National Spelling Bee fast facts - CNN.com	2013/05/23	Thursday May 23 02:23:51 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at what you need to know about the National Spelling Bee, held in the spring every year in Washington, DC. Facts:  May 25-May 31, 2014 - The 87th Annual Scripps National Spelling Bee will be held. May 26-June 1, 2013 - The 86th Annual Scripps National Spelling Bee is held. Thirteen-year-old Arvind Mahankali from Bayside, New York, is the 2013 winner. His winning word was "knaidal," which is a type of dumpling. Contestants must not be over 15 and in the eighth grade or younger. Winning words have included: Laodicean, luge, therapy, croissant, milieu, lyceum, kamikaze, antediluvian, chiaroscurist, logorrhea, Purim, and knack. The 2012 champion of the spelling bee won:  From the Scripps National Spelling Bee, a $30,000 cash prize and an engraved trophy. From Merriam-Webster, a $2,500 U.S. savings bond and a reference library. From Sigma Phi Epsilon Educational Foundation, a $5,000 scholarship. From Encyclopdia Britannica, $2,600 worth of reference works, including the Final Print Edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica and a lifetime membership to Britannica Online Premium. From Middlebury Interactive Languages, an online language course and a Nook Color. Spelling Bee statistics Timeline:  1925 - The Louisville Courier-Journal starts the event with nine contestants. Frank Neuhauser is the first winner, after spelling gladiolus correctly. 1941 - Scripps Howard assumes sponsorship of the program. 1943-1945 - There is no National Spelling Bee due to World War II. There were co-champions in 1950, 1957, and 1962.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/20/living/stronger-marriage-with-affairs-redbook-relate/index.html	living	How affairs make my marriage stronger - CNN.com	2014/05/20	Tuesday May 20 09:57:40 EDT 2014	(RedbookMag.com) -- It's a Wednesday night, and my boyfriend and I are drinking wine and making out in the back booth of a dimly lit bar. It feels like nothing else in the world exists... until my phone vibrates. "It's my husband. The kids are in bed," I say, then put my phone in my purse and pull my boyfriend toward me. I spend half a second staring at the diamond on my engagement ring before hiding my hand from my sight line. It's not a secret that I'm married, but it's also not something I want to think about right now. Am I a horrible person? Without context, I know I sound horrible. But in my marriage, having affairs works. My husband and I don't talk about it. But I'm certain our don't-ask-don't-tell rule is what has allowed our marriage to last as long as it has. Redbook: The Biggest Complaints from Unhappy Husbands Notice that I didn't say we're in an open marriage -- we're not. An open marriage is transparent, with agreed-upon rules and an understanding of what both parties will and will not do with others. My marriage is opaque. I recognize what Frank and Claire Underwood have in "House of Cards," although I like to think my husband and I aren't as soulless as their characters. But there are similarities: We know the other has secrets, but we don't care to find out more. It's an attitude people think of as very French -- the idea that you can have an affair and a healthy marriage. Quite honestly, it works. But that doesn't mean it's easy. When Dave* and I met in our late 20s, I knew that he was a player. So was I. We also had chemistry beyond anything else I'd ever experienced. We just got each other. When I was with him, I could be myself. He was the only boyfriend I've ever told the truth to about how many men I'd slept with, because I believed that no matter what I said, he'd never judge me. He also never seemed to get jealous. Redbook: 10 Lies Men Want Their Wives to Tell Them After about six months of late-night booty calls, Dave and I settled into a proper relationship and started calling each other boyfriend and girlfriend. At first, it was incredibly volatile. After not hearing from him for an evening, I'd go ballistic. He'd refuse to engage, saying he had nothing to apologize for. We yelled about cheating -- he'd do it, I'd do it, we'd be furious with each other. But eventually, I realized this dynamic wouldn't change. One of us would always act out if cheating was against the rules. But what if it wasn't? What if we both admitted that, yes, we were sometimes tempted, and that sometimes we acted on that temptation? I think I was the one who brought it up over dinner one night, just after we'd moved in together. I told him that I'd no longer ask questions, that I didn't want to know. He said he'd do the same. We reaffirmed that we loved each other, and that wouldn't change. And then, without drawing up any official rules, we embarked on our anything-but-traditional relationship. Redbook: 10 Things He'll Never Forget You Said We got married seven years ago and now have two sons, ages 4 and nearly 2. The arguments started up again during my first pregnancy. I was pretty sure Dave was sleeping with someone else while I was stuck at home. Before, I felt we could both have our cake and eat it, too, but the last thing I wanted to do when I was pregnant was seek out an affair. It seemed tawdry and gross, and I resented the fact that all my husband had to do was slip off his ring and he'd look single. Meanwhile, I was huge, hormonal, and knew my husband was cheating on me. When I told him how I felt, he broke off his side situation. Toward the last trimester of my pregnancy, Dave was amazing. He was home every night, did everything around the house, and was 100% there for me -- but I still felt resentful and like I'd gotten the short end of the stick. A few months after our son was born, I quickly got into a relationship with a former co-worker. It wasn't great -- I really would have rather been at home with my son, and I felt I was punishing myself for my husband's behavior during my pregnancy. I liked my co-worker, but I know I pushed us into romantic territory fast because I wanted to feel desired. My husband and I had some huge fights during that time, and we both uttered the word "divorce." But deep down, neither of us wanted that. We love each other. We also seriously like other people. I ended my affair, and for the next six months or so, my husband and I recommitted to our marriage and our family. And once we settled into a comfortable rhythm of life with a baby, we both began relaxing into our old routines. He came home late. I flirted with men when I went out with my single girlfriends. And little by little, we reached the point we're at now, where both of us occasionally have affairs on the side but always come home to each other. Redbook: Things Men Love to Hear in Bed Normally, the guys I have affairs with are men I meet through my job -- I travel a lot -- as an event coordinator, at parties, through friends of friends, or even old flames I've reconnected with on Facebook. I've always been the type of person who gets physical fast, and being married hasn't changed that. I don't keep my marriage a secret from the guys I date -- I don't take off my rings and I mention my husband and kids in front of them -- but I also don't make it an issue. Often, they're cheating as well, and I feel there's an unspoken code about what we do and don't discuss. Right now, I'm 40 and my husband is 38, and I do wonder how long we can keep this up. I don't want to actively seek out affairs. I feel like my work, thanks to all those business trips, has made it easy to fall into them without doing much damage to my everyday life. I haven't said "I love you" to anyone else since I met my husband, and I do sometimes wonder how my husband feels toward the women he meets. I know -- and hope he knows -- that very few women would put up with a similar type of relationship, and I think that understanding is part of the bedrock of our bond. Elle.com: The Number One Reason Men Cheat When I say I'm going out, he tells me to have a good time. He'll send texts, but I'm not obligated to respond. I text him if I won't be coming home (which, truthfully, happens very rarely since we've had kids), and I always have safe sex. Sometimes, I truly am just going out for a glass of wine with a girlfriend, but I like the intrigue that I could be meeting a man. I'm pretty sure when he goes out, it's to meet a woman -- or women. I think I can tell when he is in a serious "relationship" -- he'll wear the same cologne and leave with a book tucked under his arm to give her -- versus when he may be casually meeting someone for sex. He also travels a lot for work, and I don't know what he does while he's gone. It's harder when I think something is going on while we're both in town. The more I think about it, the less okay I am with our lifestyle, so I've become pretty good at shutting down that part of my brain. Because truth be told, I do worry that Dave might fall in love with someone else. That's why when I see his secret smiles or notice him spending tons of time texting, I step it up on my end, asking him to be home on a certain night and initiating sex. I remind him how much I love him and how much our marriage means to me. I won't talk to him about it directly, though, because while it's terrifying to imagine my husband leaving me, I know it's possible. But that's true in any relationship, and I don't think the fact that my husband can sleep with other women makes him any more likely to fall in love with one of them. I believe that if you love something, you let it go, and if it's yours, it'll come back to you. Of course, that's easier said than done, but it's something I try to remind myself. And so far, he's come back every time. Elle.com: Why I Married a Sex Addict And for that matter, so have I. I've had three relationships since Dave and I got married. Even though I was very fond of each of those men, I didn't want to be married to them. The affairs aren't my real life. They're fancy cocktails and tiny plates and falling asleep without the whooshing sound of a baby monitor. And they make me that much happier for the family I do have. I've often thought about what would happen if Dave and I were to be more transparent, but I don't think it would work. We live in a society where monogamy is everything, and it's hard to explain that you can love having sex with multiple people but still only love one person. We both know this, but if we tried to put our behavior into words, I'm afraid we'd say things we'd regret. The closest we came was when I got an abnormal Pap smear result. The retest came back normal, but it did give me pause and make me wonder how safe what we were doing was, physically and emotionally. Dave and I had a serious talk about safety, but spoke mostly in the abstract -- about things that might have happened in the past -- and came down to the rule that we will always have safe sex with other people. I'm not sure what will happen as our sons get older -- or, for that matter, what will happen as we get older. For now, our personal decisions don't affect our sons' lives, but if that changes -- if the kids start asking questions, or if one of us starts missing major milestones because we're spending too much time out of the house -- then Dave and I may need to lay everything on the table and reconfigure the dynamics of our relationship. We also may find that playing with fire isn't as much fun. Already, I find my priorities have shifted so much in the past decade -- most of the time, there's nowhere else I'd rather be than home on the floor, playing with my son and husband. But that's most of the time. Once every few weeks, there's something magical about being out with a man who's not my husband. Just call it the secret spark that keeps my marriage alive. *Name has been changed.  Reprinted with permission of Hearst Communications, Inc. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/20/living/stormy-horse-birth-irpt/index.html	living	Thousands lose sleep over horse's birth - CNN.com	2014/05/20	Tuesday May 20 10:25:46 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When it comes to animals, it seems people like to watch just about anything give birth. That includes an Airville, Pennsylvania, horse named Stormy. It's been over two weeks since Stormy's owner, Jodie Otte, flipped on a streaming webcam inside the horse's stable so she and her 14-year-old daughter wouldn't miss the birth. But soon there were thousands of eyes watching Stormy's every move over the Internet, waiting for her foal to arrive. The cream and white mare, who gave birth to a filly early Tuesday -- days past her due date -- has drawn the attention of horse enthusiasts, parents and children around the world. Stormy's live webcam feed is hosted on Mare Stare, a site devoted to hosting webcam videos that feature horses giving birth and show foals standing, eating and playing for the very first time. Otte says the first day the 18-year-old horse's webcam went live, it got more than 10,000 hits on Mare Stare. A friend of Otte's posted a screenshot from the webcam on CNN iReport, where it in turn got 18,000 views. Man leaves $1,000 tip for dog's surgery Otte, an accountant and photographer who lives in nearby Norrisville, Maryland, said she and her close friends all understand the humor and slight absurdity in Stormy's unexpected popularity. "It's nuts. If my feed goes down people call me at work," she said. "I have no idea why people are so into Stormy, but I think it's the miracle of birth," Otte said. Sandra Armenteros, a close friend and photography colleague of Otte's who shared the story on iReport, has been closely tracking the horse's rise to stardom. "The first international fans came from Canada and Australia, where we have colleagues. After that, it really took off. The world is literally watching this horse." One family that eagerly awaited Stormy's delivery was the Bielawski family in Goshen, New York. Jamie Bielawski, another friend of Otte's, home-schools her four daughters, ages 7 to 11. She started showing her girls Stormy's webcam feed after Otte opened the webcam up to the public. Photos: Animals in the snow "I wanted the girls to experience a horse be born," she said Tuesday. "A lot of kids today go to Walmart and see a chicken come from a package and that it comes from Perdue, but I want my kids to understand the environment and animals and what animals go through." She has made the webcam a learning experience for her girls, teaching them about horse anatomy and the science behind pregnancy. "When they wake up they don't say, 'Has the foal been born yet?' They ask, 'Is the sac showing yet? Are the hooves showing?' They know the process of a horse's birth," she said. Her 9-year-old daughter, Andie, loves watching Stormy with her sisters on their smartphone, and they'll pass it around to see how the mare is doing. "It is cool watching an animal give birth," Andie said. "I am excited to see what the baby will look like. I hope it happens soon." Stormy's foal took its time to leave the womb, which made some viewers impatient. "I stayed up till 4 a.m. watching last night! So tired right now! The royal baby wasn't this anticipated," Gemma Reeve of London wrote on Otte's Facebook page, which has pictures of Stormy with her foal, a filly. Cooling off in the dog days of summer Another commenter said the webcam feed was becoming an endless loop. "This is like the movie 'Groundhog Day.' We might all start to lose it like Bill Murray soon," Kelly Barclay wrote. Some people blamed the worldwide exposure for Stormy's delay in delivery. On Mare Stare's Facebook page, one commenter wrote, "Poor mare is holding back on foaling because there are way too many people hanging out around her." This isn't the first time an animal's health has gripped the attention of thousands of Internet fans. Scores of people were outraged when the National Zoo's panda cam was turned off during the 2013 U.S. government shutdown. And Reddit's community clung anxiously to updates from a Navy hospital corpsman who saved four orphaned rabbits and nursed them back to health. The nests of various birds of prey have drawn avid audiences to watch eggs hatch and chicks grow up. Stormy's baby, Pixie, was born early Tuesday to much fanfare. "So glad I have this iPad mini, I keep checking during the night," Wendy Puthuff anxiously wrote on Facebook on Monday evening. Sadly, after all the watching and waiting, Puthuff missed the big moment. "Fell asleep with my iPad after midnight, woke up just now and I missed it," Puthuff posted around 6:30 a.m. Tuesday. "Anyone record it?" CNN's Henry Hanks and Daphne Sashin contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/21/living/asian-american-identity/index.html	living	Asian Americans more diverse than just one television show - CNN.com	2014/05/21	Wednesday May 21 09:03:06 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kristina Wong is a performance artist, writer and cultural commentator. This piece is part of an Asian American Heritage Month series that explores evolving Asian-American identity.  (CNN) -- I'm Kristina Wong, and I'm what many Americans would refer to as "one of those idiots on reality TV." Recently, I was featured on a new documentary series that focuses on the lives of Asian Americans: "I'm Asian American and... ." I thought the show would be a rare platform to show an Asian American story that had not been told: my life as a performance artist and hip-hop mogul. As an artist, the issues I explore have been deemed too "scary," "niche" and "unprofitable" for mainstream media. Among these issues: The high rates of depression and suicide in the Asian American community, white privilege, racial stereotypes, poverty tourism, gender and sexism. What drew me to becoming a performance artist was the chance to create my message on my terms.  I don't wait for someone to write me a role. I certainly don't wait for someone to cast me in a role. And I'm not holding my breath waiting for a bad-ass wisecracking Chinese American lady character like me to show up on "Game of Thrones." Leading Asian American women exist on television, but I can count them on one hand. When you see other Asian women my age on scripted television, they are usually side characters handing over scalpels, playing someone's badly accented mother or are scantily clad. If I'm taking on issues barely addressed among Asian Americans, why would I expect mainstream media to pick up on them, too? Some back story: I grew up in San Francisco. I'm Chinese American, got great grades all through high school and went to UCLA. But I bucked stable career paths in medicine, law and engineering to pursue the most unstable of careers: performance art. My performances don't fit the standard fare of what most people might expect of an Asian American woman. I don't tell reductive jokes about my American-born mother's nonexistent Chinese accent. I don't do martial arts (though I so own several zumba DVDs). I don't tell stories peppered with exotic details of Chinese culture that deliver Confuciusesque wisdom. My work has already killed any possibility of a future in politics: Stand-up comedy dressed as a giant vagina, crashing the Miss Chinatown Pageant dressed as a fake Miss Chinatown and marrying myself (twice!) in public ceremonies. Last year, I recorded a hit rap album in northern Uganda with local rappers. I've also toured five original one-woman theater shows around the world. I'd like to think my approach is bawdy, funny and fearless. I've been told I'm the living antithesis of a stereotypical submissive and quiet Asian woman. So I decided to tackle that taboo on my episode of "I'm Asian American and ..." by collecting reparations from "yellow fever guys" -- slang for white men who only date Asian women. My dates, all real, described how they prefer dating Asian women because we are "hairless," "gentle" and "love to cook and clean": basically every objectifying stereotype of a submissive Asian woman. During our dates, I coerce these men to clean my house, pay my exorbitant dinner tabs, and watch me perform a very painfully long performance art piece complete with multiple screaming birthing scenes. It's not about gold digging, it's about finding small moments of justice for a lifetime of being objectified and fetishized as an Asian woman. No, I don't expect to win an award for showing these white men that an Asian woman can be as crude and wisecracking as people of any other race. And I don't expect people to jump up and declare that I've ended racial oppression with a reality television appearance. But my 15 minutes of fame (23 to be exact) felt like a rare moment to provide some cathartic humor for those wanting to see an Asian American woman who would go to the outrageous depths that characters on scripted television show would not. I look forward to a day when I see a sitcom telling the stories of every different Asian ethnicity, LGBT, women, mixed race Asian Americans and the Asian Americans like me whose families have been here for generations. From the trailer, it seems like ABC's new sitcom "Fresh Off the Boat" will be a funny subversive take on the Chinese American family experience. It's the first scripted sitcom in 20 years to feature an Asian American family on network television. The last, Margaret Cho's "All-American Girl," was panned by critics. The show's failure didn't stop Margaret from making comedy. If anything, it strengthened her, and she told the story of that show's failure in subsequent media and appearances. But I hope that viewers don't expect one sitcom to tell every Asian American's story, any more than a sitcom with a white family does not tell the story of every white person in this country. "Asian American" includes a diverse range people of Asian descent, each with a unique history and culture. Opinion: The surprising racial bias against Asians The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Kristina Wong.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/living/kid-entrepreneurs-irpt-schools/index.html	living	You're never too young to be CEO - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 08:29:42 EDT 2014	 (CNN) -- Lily Warren was just 8 years old when she decided to start her own business with her younger sisters. The girls had already visited a marketplace for young business owners and opened their own bank accounts at the Young Americans Bank in Denver, which touts itself as the world's only bank designed for kids. "There were tons of young entrepreneurs selling what they made. It was a really cool place," said Lily, now 13. When their parents started beekeeping at their home in Littleton, Colorado, the girls found the inspiration they really needed. While they weren't able to harvest enough honey to sell, the sisters noticed that their parents always collected a significant amount of beeswax. Instead of throwing it away, they thought they could find a way to use it. The girls researched what could be made at home with beeswax. By 2009, Lily, Chloe and Sophie were in business as the Sweet Bee Sisters, making lip balm in flavors like strawberry and root beer, and lotion bars in lavender and bamboo. They sell their products at local stores and, for the last three years, at their own stall at the entrepreneurs' marketplace that inspired them. In 2013, the Warren sisters were named finalists in a young entrepreneurs competition and were awarded $250 and mentoring from a business leader. "Their ability to speak confidently with customers, to make decisions collectively, to work hard for something they want and to designate and fulfill responsibilities has [all] been enhanced through their business experience," said Lisa Warren, the Sweet Bee Sisters' mom. Around the country, children -- some of them barely old enough to read -- are turning their big, creative ideas into money-making businesses. And their parents, schools and business leaders are cheering them on. 'It's never too early' Business consultants and serial entrepreneurs say that it's never too early to teach kids the benefits of sound money management and smart business practices. Some business leaders around the country started businesses as kids, including Honest Tea's CEO Seth Goldman, who sold golf balls he dug up from the course near his home, while Vosges Haut-Chocolat's CEO Katrina Markoff, who has said she offered Easy-Bake Oven treats to customers. "Entrepreneurship comes with the emotional ups and downs," said Adam Toren, who co-authored the "Kidpreneurs" books with his brother, Matthew. "Learning how to overcome obstacles at a young age definitely played a huge role in becoming who we are today." Today, the Toren brothers are serial entrepreneurs who founded Youngentrepreneur.com. Toren said they like to pay it forward by providing businesses with tips and ideas they've picked up over the years. "Sharpening a child's entrepreneurial skills will equip them with the skills necessary to tackle a limitless future," Toren said. That doesn't mean all young entrepreneurs focus their time on business instead of school. Learning entrepreneurial skills can also put young people on the path to more learning. A study of students involved in the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship, a program that teaches business skills to low-income youth, showed just that. Students involved in the program had a 32% increase in interest in attending college, while students who did not participate saw a 17% decrease, according to a Harvard Graduate School of Education study from 2002 to 2004. The study also found an increase in leadership behaviors among students who participated. Christine Poorman, executive director of the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship in Chicago, believes the numbers would be higher today -- a recent alumni survey of 300 students found that 90% were in college. She often sees students who completed the program using money made from their businesses to pay for college. While young entrepreneurship can lead to college and careers, some young people see it as a way to find their owns voices. Nine-year-old Leila Kaufman of New York City didn't like that adults were reviewing technology toys for kids. With the help of her dad, Michael, she created a website called RethinkToys. Together, they produce videos of Leila reviewing the latest tech toys for kids. The project launched a business and helped her create a place to voice her opinion. "If it's a kid's toy, shouldn't kids be rating it?" Leila asked. Michael helps Leila make contacts with companies and attend product launches she wouldn't normally be able to access. She's been to media events for video games and sat in on closed-door meetings with a company that created a popular game she reviewed, Kaufman said. Plans to expand and monetize RethinkToys are in the future, but for now, Leila's parents are happy that she's learning to give her opinion honestly, confidently and articulately. "At all these events, she was the only kid there and just blew everyone in the media away," he said. Kid entrepreneurs also have powerful lessons to learn about balance. Leila's mom, Tammy Kaufman, said they have to remind their daughter that she's a kid, and she has other priorities beyond her website. "I think it's difficult for her to be an entrepreneur at this age," Tammy Kaufman said. "There are a lot of things her parents and her teachers make her do." 'I teach my kids to fail spectacularly' Canada-based business mentor Cameron Herold, who started his first company at 21, says parents and teachers could do a better job of nurturing "entrepreneurial traits" in children. His father raised him to be an entrepreneur when he saw that Herold wasn't likely to be a model student or employee. Herold had little interest in school, where he struggled to pay attention and believed the school system was trying to mold him into something he wasn't. Herold says more schools are trying to build students' confidence in areas that match their interests and abilities, rather than focusing entirely on improving areas where they struggle. "Let your weaknesses be your weaknesses," he said. "Let's teach kids according to their abilities." After all, not every child-led business is a precocious success. Michigan high school English teacher Nicholas Provenzano launched "20 Time" in his classroom this fall -- a program that gives students an opportunity to explore topics that interest them -- and asked his students to keep blogs that document their progress. The students received only one hour of class time per week for the projects, but most invested time outside the classroom, Provenzano said. Provenzano said the project helps students to lead their own learning and understand how to recover from failure -- one of the core lessons of entrepreneurship. His students' projects ranged from training to run a marathon to knitting hats for newborns to developing a mobile game app to designing and selling clothes. The main thing Provenzano wanted his students to get from this project "is that failure is a part of life." In the real world, he wants his students to be able to take risks, he said. "I teach my kids to fail spectacularly and grow from that experience," he said. "To be effective problem solvers and critical thinkers, failure has to be an accepted part of the process and not something that should stop people from trying." Emily Fleming, one of Provenzano's students, set out to design a clothing line and set up an Etsy shop to sell it. When she struggled to complete her project, she wrote about the realization that fear of failure and the potential embarrassment often keeps her from pursuing new ideas. "I had this amazing opportunity to create and explore and I didn't take full advantage because of an irrational fear of failure and embarrassment," she wrote on her project blog. "I want to be able to go out for my presentation and say that I conquered this irrational fear, and created something without a worry that someone wouldn't like it as much as I do. 'Twenty time' is changing for me and I am ready and excited to take this as far as I can." 'She can be the creator of her destiny' In success or in failure, entrepreneurship can be a powerful early lesson in money management. Rich Martinez, CEO of the Young Americans Center in Denver, says that kids not only need to be motivated to be entrepreneurs, but they also need an environment that will foster the kind of risk-taking that's required. "Kids are motivated by money, but adults don't give them a chance to make it. We just give it to them," he said. That's not the best way for kids to learn how the rest of the world works, he said. "Somehow we've created a society that isn't OK with failure, that isn't OK with taking risks," he said. Seven-year-old Scout Kingsley and her mom, Ashley, started their Happy Wear girls' accessories line one night when they were making necklaces out of colorful paperclips. "Scout is definitely the artistic director, telling me what looks good and what will sell," Ashley Kingsley said. "I've never crafted before in my life. I had no way to really help her." Since Happy Wear launched in November, the company has profited more than $1,500 in Etsy sales and marketplace events, Kingsley says. Scout has also participated in the Denver young entrepreneurs marketplace. "I know Scout loves to make money and we opened a bank account for her. She loves watching her bank account grow," she said. They have plans for more markets and would love to see some of the pieces get picked up on a national scale. Scout said her love of dressing up and accessories makes running Happy Wear feel fun. Apart from production, Scout has learned a lot about marketing and packaging, she said. "I get better every time people order something," Scout said. Ashley Kingsley considers Happy Wear to be a learning experience for Scout; it teachers her that there's more than one way to acquire knowledge. "She's a kid, but she is, I believe, heads and shoulders above the kids her age," Ashley Kingsley said. "I hope this opens up her mind so she knows she can be the creator of her destiny." Did you run a business as a young person? Share your experiences in the comments, on Twitter @CNNSchools or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/15/living/dealing-with-inlaws-matrimony/index.html	living	In-laws at the wedding and beyond - CNN.com	2014/05/15	Thursday May 15 04:29:43 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Love them or hate them: In-laws are yours forever. And there's nothing like a wedding to make you get to know the newest addition to your family. Your wedding is likely the first time you've had to navigate tricky issues with your fianc's parents. The big event forces tough conversations about money, family, religion and taste -- and bring to light just how different or similar you and your in-laws may be. That said, a wedding is way more stressful than most any other interactions you'll ever have with your extended family. You're probably just getting your footing with one another, sorting out sore spots and tension points. So your future family forecast is looking bright if you can survive the wedding process together. In the meantime, consider this your designer guide to navigating the in-law relationship. Brides: The Most Flattering Wedding Dress for Your Body Type The Overbearing In-Laws Your future mother-in-law might have some very set ideas about your guest list, center pieces, religion in your ceremony, or maybe, all of these things. Plus, your own parents are probably weighing in on these very topics. Put simply: There are way too many cooks in the kitchen. While you're comfortable telling your fianc and your own parents what you really think, it's a lot harder to level with a mother who isn't your own. The good news: Her involvement means she cares, and wants the day to be just as meaningful as you do. So don't lose sight of her good intentions, but we get it, it's annoying! Brides: Kim Kardashian's Wedding Dress! 11 Fantasy Sketches If things reach a fever pitch -- say, she won't stop bugging you about not inviting her co-workers -- you need to call for reinforcements. Ask your fianc to talk to his parents. You and he can set boundaries for both sets of parents, and let your respective mothers and fathers know the "do not cross" lines. By explaining that this is a cross-parental policy, your mother-in-law will feel less slighted. And maybe, just maybe, her co-workers will be nixed from the list. Brides: The Most Creative Wedding Cakes of the Year The Laissez-Faire In-Laws Some of us have in-laws who just don't seem to care. They never ask about the wedding and seem borderline bored when you bring it up. There could be a variety of explanations: Maybe they view the event as something the bride's family should be involved in, and don't want to meddle. Or, they might have OD'd on past kids' weddings, so they're happy to sit this one out. The odds are that your in-laws are just trying to respect that this as your and your fianc's event. In the grand scheme of things, it's a lot better to have no meddling than the overbearing parents-in-law. Brides: Gorgeous Plus Size Wedding Dresses But to ensure that your in-laws feel included, you and your fianc are going to take the initiative. (After all, they probably want to help, but they also don't want to bother you.) Assign them an activity -- ask them to host a wedding weekend event or create a seating chart for their friends and family. Even just asking your mother-in-law for advice on your dress, or seeing if your father-in-law wants to join your dad and brother the morning of the wedding for golf can go a long way. This is your chance to bring your future in-laws closer to you and your family. Don't squander it. Brides: Expecting (and Engaged!) Celebrities Unsupportive In-Laws Sometimes, you strike out in the in-law game, also known as the difficult and unsupportive in-laws. Not only do your fianc's parents object to everything you're doing around the wedding, they're also degrading about your choices. No conversation feels productive -- it seems to be an excuse for your in-laws to criticize you and your fianc about how you spend your money or how offensive it is that you've excluded a third cousin twice removed from the guest list. Brides: The Most Beautiful Honeymoon Destinations  It's important to remember that these strains over your wedding have nothing to do with the wedding. There are clearly much deeper family-related issues at hand. Instead of fighting over wedding-related issues with them, it's time for a broader existential conversation with your fianc. Does he want his parents in your life? If so, he needs to invest ample time into understanding what drives his parents' difficult approach with the two of you. Is it something about the marriage itself? Something between son and parents? Ultimately your fianc has to be your advocate with his parents. He has to sort out what's really going on and what needs to be addressed so that all of you can get along  long after the wedding is over. Was it smooth sailing with your new in-laws or did you have to weather some storms? Tell us in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page!   Reprinted with permission of Conde Nast. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/19/living/boston-gender-pay-gap-meeting/index.html	living	Gender pay gap: How Boston hopes to be the first to eliminate it - CNN.com	2014/05/19	Monday May 19 12:06:39 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- There's been plenty of talk about the gender pay gap in recent days after speculation that recently fired New York Times executive editor Jill Abramson was let go after speaking up about possible pay disparity between her and the previous executive editor, Bill Keller. In response to that talk, the New York Times publisher, in a lengthy statement over the weekend, said Abramson's total "pay package," which included stock and other compensation in addition to salary, was "comparable" to Keller's and was, in fact, more than 10% higher during Abramson's last year, and that her removal was due to her management of the newsroom, nothing else. Until we hear Abramson's side of the story, it remains unclear what role, if any, an alleged pay gap played in her fate. What is clear is how outraged women were hearing that the Times' first woman executive editor could be making less than the last male executive editor. It was another reminder, to many women, that the income gap is alive and well. But if one city gets its way, that disparity between what men and women earn will become a thing of the past. Boston has pledged to become the first city in the country to eliminate the gender pay gap. It's certainly a lofty goal: How on Earth will Beantown make it happen? OPINION: Don't believe the hype: In real world, women still make less than men  On Monday, at a White House regional conference on working families in Boston, administration officials along with members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation, including Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren, joined business leaders and academics, to tout the city's ambitious plan and what it will take to succeed. The event is one of several this spring leading up to a summit with President Obama at the end of June at the White House. "What's really significant is that Boston recognizes that this isn't just an issue of fairness and isn't just an issue of equity as a moral value," said Betsey Stevenson, a member of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, in an interview. "This is about competitiveness and having a competitive advantage." Women make up about half the labor force but will soon represent more than half of the highly educated labor force, said Stevenson, who will be speaking at the Boston conference. "That's why it becomes an issue of competitiveness. The amount of talent that is in that other half that you're ignoring is relevant and when you have a lot of the talent in that other half, ignoring it is going to become even more costly over time," said Stevenson, who is currently on leave from her position as associate professor of public policy and economics at the University of Michigan. READ: No movement for women at the top in corporate America Making Boston the 'premier city for working women' Last year, then Boston Mayor Thomas Menino pledged to make Boston the "premier city for working women." He created a Women's Workforce Council, made up of leaders in academia and the public and private sectors. Victoria A. Budson, executive director of the Women and Public Policy Program at Harvard Kennedy School, is a member of the council. "When you make a city good for women, you raise the economic profile of that city. You are going to retain talent," said Budson. Women outnumber men in Boston at 52% of the population, according to a report by the Women's Workforce Council. The city also has the largest proportion of young women between the ages of 20 and 34 of any major city, and has a higher percentage of college educated women than any other metro area. And yet, the city has a significant pay gap, although it's lower than the national average. In 2011, working female residents of Boston earned 83% of what male residents in Boston earned, according to the report. Nationwide, women earn 77 cents for every dollar men make. Boston is asking companies to voluntarily sign a compact committing to take steps to reduce the wage gap. About 50 companies, including some of the city's biggest employers such as Raytheon and State Street, have signed it. READ: What changes with women in the boardroom? The council's report includes 33 different "interventions" companies can take to close the wage gap, from evaluating why mothers and non-mothers leave their businesses to standardizing compensation including bonuses to actively recruiting women to executive level and board positions. "We've made it easy," said Budson, who was recognized in our recent CNN 10: Visionary Women special coverage for her work trying to eliminate the income disparity between men and women. "We're not saying: 'Go make it equal -- figure it out.' We're saying: 'Here's a plan and a set of strategic goals. Pick some. Help your businesses grow.' " The approach, she hopes, can serve as a model for cities around the country and the world. Just last month, Budson traveled to Paris to present what Boston is doing to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. "Rather than a regulation," said Budson, it's a "nudge." What happens when women negotiate  For many women, taking steps themselves to close their own personal income gap makes them incredibly uncomfortable. According to an iVillage.com survey last year of 1,500 women, only 35% said they ever asked for a raise. That's even more significant based on the finding that of those who were unhappy at work, 63% said the number one reason was because they felt they were underpaid. READ: More people prefer a male boss, but gender gap is narrowing There is a reason our discomfort is not unwarranted. According to Budson, the research shows that when women are given an offer and negotiate that offer, or when they are paid a certain amount and they want to negotiate their salary, people tend to want to work with them less. "Women are expected to be relational and when they say, 'I think my value is X,' people might say, 'Hmmm, why are they asking? I don't feel so comfortable with that,' and it usually causes social backlash," said Budson. Whether or not Abramson faced some backlash for confronting her superiors over her compensation and whether that contributed in even the slightest way to her firing, we'll probably never know but, said Budson, it "fits the pattern." Read about Abramson's commencement address Monday  Jena Abernathy, a senior partner at the executive search firm, Witt/Kieffer, said there is a double standard when it comes to how men and women sit down and discussion compensation. She said the best advice for women is to keep track of their successes and then find the right way to make their case. "Being able to sit down at the right time, at the right moment, to say ... 'How can we close this gap? What do we need to do?' "You need to do it in a way that's not threatening," said Abernathy. "There is an art to this." OPINION: Was Jill Abramson fired because she is a woman? What do you think it will take to eliminate the gender pay gap? Chime in in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/13/living/bullying-frustrated-parents-video/index.html	living	Bullying: What parents can do to stop it - CNN.com	2014/05/13	Tuesday May 13 10:50:18 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She's a mom of two girls and lives in Manhattan. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- Sarah Cymbaluk of Fosston, Minnesota, is a frustrated mom who took matters into her own hands. After claiming that her daughter was repeatedly bullied on the school bus and the school did nothing about it, she posted a video on Facebook. In the video, Cymbaluk asked her crying daughter, "Tell me how it makes you feel." Her daughter, who turned 9 on Tuesday, responded, "It makes me feel sad and scared, and I don't like it." "She's been called into the principal's (office) and made to feel like it's her fault," Cymbaluk told CNN affiliate KXJB, claiming the bullying has gone on since December. "She's been told to ignore it. She's been told to disregard it. Basically she's been told to stuff her emotions and get on with life." Fosston Schools Superintendent Mark Nohner, who said he thinks the situation could have been resolved without going to Facebook, said he learned about this issue only recently but conceded "somewhere along the line" the case "fell through the cracks."  Are we too quick to cry 'bully' these days? "And so we need to review our procedures and policies and maybe do a better job of articulating to the parents what we're doing," said Nohner. While Cymbaluk has come under some fire for posting the video of her tearful daughter, this case demonstrates how angry and helpless parents can feel when they believe their child is being bullied and that nothing is being done to stop it. 'You want to do something to help your child' Becki Cohn-Vargas, a parent of three grown children, is a former principal, superintendent and teacher with more than two decades of experience in education. She is now director of Not in Our School, a program that works to create networks of schools that are free of bullying and offers a guide to parents on how to deal with bullying behavior. "Without knowing all the details of the case, what I can say is that I can understand a parent's frustration because I, as a parent, have moved my child from a school ... so I know that you feel desperate," said Cohn-Vargas, who transferred her own daughter to another high school years ago because of a bullying incident. "You want to do something to help your child." Police file raises questions about Rebecca Sedwick's suicide  The key is focusing on the most effective methods to make sure your child feels safe. That begins with talking with your child and determining whether they have, in fact, been bullied, she says. "It isn't supportive to your child to just jump in and defend when you don't know exactly what happened," said Cohn-Vargas, co-author of the book "Identity Safe Classrooms: Places to Belong and Learn," who says she's had her share of experiences as a principal with parents coming in with "guns blazing." "I had so many cases where parents ... felt like they had to defend their child because they thought that was support." Parents might first encourage children to try and handle the situation by standing up for themselves and telling the bully to stop. If that doesn't work, the next stage would be working up through the chain of command, said Cohn-Vargas, beginning with the person closest to where the alleged bullying took place, such as a teacher if it took place in the classroom or a bus driver if the incident happened on a bus and then moving on to the principal and the school district. "I am not trying to underestimate that it's hard because school districts sometimes put their head in the sand, they don't want to see what's happening, but I think more and more school districts are very pro-active," said Cohn-Vargas. When friends become bullies 'Document, document, document' Nancy Willard, director of the group Embrace Civility in the Digital Age, which works on combating cyberbullying and author of "Positive Relations @ School (& Elsewhere)," doesn't totally agree. She says she hears from far too many parents who say schools are rationalizing bullying behavior, saying things like "It wasn't that big of a deal" or "You're overreacting" or "Your kid needs to learn how to deal with it." Willard, who has created her own empowerment guide for parents, says her first advice is to "document, document, document." Parents should chronicle what happens, what staff were around and what they did, what the impact has been in terms of emotional distress, how the alleged bullying behavior may be interfering with the child's education and after-school activities and what the school response has been, said Willard. If the school is not responding, a parent can go the person charged with responsibility for ensuring safe schools at the district level, she said. "If you don't get help at the district level, then you go to the State Department of Education." Parents, beware of bullying on sites you've never seen  If a child is being bullied and there is a civil rights violation, a parent can file a civil rights complaint either at the state or federal level, she added. "Parents need to know that they have more power," said Willard. A focus on reconciliation, not punishment She said parents should not be focused on punishment, which could lead to retaliation and more pain for the bullied child. Instead, they should ask the school to see that the person responsible for the hurtful behavior gets help since other problems may be pushing them to bully and work with the school to create an opportunity, at some point, for the child who caused the pain to make amends. Cohn-Vargas adds that parents should refrain from immediately trying to schedule a meeting with the parents of the child doing the bullying. "It's because it can turn into conflict between adults," she said. "It just can get ugly really fast." Willard said part of the reason why she created her parent guide in the first place is because she believes parents can help schools make positive change. "If we've got 1.2 million kids who are experiencing hurtful acts at school each week, that's a fair number of parents who if they got motivated could encourage and empower change," she said, citing numbers from a 2011 Department of Justice report. Cohn-Vargas believes schools and school districts are "in the beginning stages of addressing bullying effectively." She believes only a multifaceted approach will succeed -- one that includes empowering students to identify issues and solutions, teaching bystanders to stand up against bullying and looking at bullying as a learning experience where kids can move on and change. She cited a recent case involving a middle school, which worked with her program, Not in Our School. Three boys photoshopped a picture of an eighth- grade girl, adding a swastika, a naked image and an anti-gay slur, and circulated the photo. When telling bullying victims to 'just fight back' doesn't work  School officials identified three students were responsible, including one Jewish student, and wanted the children to really learn from the incident. They came up with the idea of having the students do research on the topics involved including the history of the swastika, said Cohn-Vargas. "So what does the school do to handle it right? They take it seriously, they investigate. They look at it as a learning experience," she said. "All children at some point end up being either a victim, a bystander or someone who does the bullying and so it's a matter of creating a learning opportunity for the kids." Do you think schools are doing enough to stop bullying? Chime in in the comments below or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter and CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/16/living/brown-v-board-60th-anniversary-spelman-identity/index.html	living	60 years after Brown v. Board, still separate - is equal possible? - CNN.com	2014/05/16	Friday May 16 06:59:32 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Beverly Daniel Tatum is the president of Spelman College in Atlanta and the author of "Can We Talk About Race?" and Other Conversations in an Era of School Resegregation. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- I was born in Tallahassee, Florida, in 1954, the year of the landmark school desegregation case, Brown v. Board of Education. The struggle for integration has shaped my life from the very beginning. When my father, an art professor at Florida A&M University, sought to pursue his doctorate in art education at Florida State University, the state of Florida chose to pay his transportation to Penn State rather than open its doors to an African-American graduate student. In 1957, he completed his degree at Penn State, and in 1958 became the first African-American professor at Bridgewater State College, now Bridgewater State University, in Massachusetts, where I grew up. My parents were part of the great migration, moving to the North to escape segregation. They achieved their goal. My three siblings and I attended predominantly white public schools in our small Massachusetts town without protest or high court drama, and graduated well-prepared for the colleges we all attended. Forty-four years later, in 2002, my husband and I left Massachusetts and returned to the South -- initiating our family's reverse migration. Eventually our sons, and even my parents, moved to Atlanta, too. They returned to a region very different than the one they remembered. Fifty years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, their choice of housing and their freedom of movement are unencumbered by race. But 60 years after racial segregation was outlawed in schools, public education is again segregating along racial lines. And not just in the South, but across the United States. Schools are more segregated today than in the 1980s, according to a new report released by researchers at UCLA's Civil Rights Project, "Brown at 60: Great Progress, a Long Retreat and Uncertain Future." This is the result of continued patterns of residential segregation, and a series of Supreme Court decisions that have quietly undermined the implementation of Brown through a shift away from court-ordered busing and other mandated desegregation strategies. As school districts move back to "neighborhood school" policies, white students will likely have less school contact with people of color than their parents had. Particularly for young white children, interaction with people of color is likely to be a virtual reality rather than an actual one, with media images (often negative ones) most clearly shaping their attitudes and perceived knowledge of communities of color. For students of color, the return to segregation means the increased likelihood of attending a school with limited resources. Most highly segregated black and Latino schools have high percentages of poor children. At most highly segregated white schools, middle-class students are in the majority. The negative educational impact of attending high-poverty schools is well-documented. Whether a student comes from a poor or middle-income family, academic achievement is likely to decline if the student attends a high-poverty school. Conversely, academic performance is likely to improve if the student attends a middle-class school, even if his or her own family is poor. The learning conditions which are taken for granted in middle-class suburban schools are too often absent in impoverished classrooms. It is not surprising that the outcomes associated with high-poverty schools across the country are bleak: lower test scores, higher dropout rates, fewer course offerings and low levels of college attendance. If we remember that the original impetus for the Brown lawsuit was not simply a symbolic fight for the acknowledgment of the equality of all children, but a struggle for equal access to publicly funded educational resources, we can see that the struggle continues. So, what must we do? In particular, white children will need to be in schools that are intentional about helping them understand social justice issues like prejudice, discrimination and racism, empowering them to think critically about the stereotypes to which they are exposed in the culture. Such tools are needed to help them acquire the social skills necessary to function effectively in a diverse world, and are essential for continued progress in a society still struggling to disentangle the racism woven into the fabric of its founding. The hopeful news is that there are educators around the country working hard to create anti-racist classrooms and learning environments even when their classrooms are predominantly white. Children of color in under-resourced, racially isolated schools also need these same tools. But they will also require powerful advocates to insure that they have committed and well-trained teachers, a challenging curriculum and the educational resources needed to inspire their own striving for excellence. Providing these resources equitably is a daunting task, one that has never been accomplished in the history of education in the United States. Yet we fail to do it at our own peril. In 2014, the question we all must ask is: How do we build strong school communities where every student, regardless of race, is supported to achieve his or her personal best, and teach the skills needed to live in healthy, democratic society? When we can answer that question, the promise of Brown v. Board of Education will be fulfilled.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/16/living/prom-dress-shopping-too-sexy-skimpy-parents/index.html	living	Virginia prom dismissal illustrates that dress policing is tough - CNN.com	2014/04/16	Wednesday Apr 16 04:51:55 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. This column has been updated since its original publication. (CNN) -- Just when you thought you'd heard everything. A 17-year-old high school senior who was attending a prom for homeschoolers this weekend near Richmond, Virginia, got kicked out, she says, because she was told her dress was too short. In a blog post detailing what happened and showing a photo of her wearing the dress she claims conformed to the dress code, the student named Clare says she was also told there were other concerns. Some of the dads who were chaperoning the prom had complained that her dancing "was too provocative" and that she was going to "cause the young men at the prom to think impure thoughts." Really? That isn't much of a stretch from "she asked for it" when we blame victims of sexual assault for what they were wearing. Are the thoughts and actions of young men and their fathers really her responsibility? CNN affiliate WTVR reached out to the organizers of the prom, who provided the following response: "The Richmond Homeschool Prom has been a part of a long and wonderful tradition in the Richmond area for over 8 years. The prom is an opportunity to provide over 500 young adults from all over the Richmond area and surrounding counties with a prom. We regret that any individuals were dissatisfied with their experience this year." The case, while outrageous on many levels, does illustrate the potent mix of prom angst this time of year with teenage girls shopping for the perfect dress, selections bordering on the wildly inappropriate to many parents, and a culture sexualizing girls at younger and younger ages. Plenty of reasons to be anxious Can I just say right here I'm already freaking out and my girls, 6 and 8, are years away from prom time? "16, 17, 18-year-olds should not be in dresses with thigh-high slits, necklines that plunge precariously close to the belly button, backs that are cut so low as to expose butt dimples," said a mother named Judith on CNN's Facebook page. "Parents need to step in and stop this 'beyond the age' dressing." What happens if you say no to a promposal? In some cases, like the prom mentioned above in Virginia, schools are not leaving it up to the parents and are imposing their own dress codes for prom. Some are going to extra lengths to clarify what's acceptable. One Northern California Catholic high school sent an e-mail to parents announcing that attire for junior and senior prom should "be moderate and reflect pride in both the person and the school." The e-mail, obtained by CNN, included pictures of dresses deemed acceptable and those considered inappropriate. On the banned list were low-cut and backless dresses and dresses with very high hemlines. Holly Manson, a mom of three teens in Oakland, Maine, doesn't think dress codes are the answer. "I know the town over from us requires that their dresses have a strap," she said with a laugh. "It has to have a strap, but it's OK if it comes up to their butt cheek." Too hot for tweens: Some parents dread back-to-school shopping According to the teen who says she was booted from prom in Virginia, her gown met the prom's dress code, which called for dresses "fingertip length or longer." That means the dress must be longer than your fingertips once you have your hands at your side. At 5' 9," she said, dresses might look shorter on her than on other girls. As for the "provocative" dance moves, she added that she hadn't been dancing at all. "Enough with the slut shaming," Clare wrote in her post. "I'm not responsible for some perverted 45 year old dad lusting after me because I have a sparkly dress on." "And if you think I am, then maybe you're part of the problem." Boys don't have many variations on the traditional tux to choose from when planning prom attire, so they typically don't have to deal with the harsh judgment and disrespect that girls such as Clare face because of their clothing choices. But when kids dress in ways that are gender nonconforming, or even when a boy wants to wear a kilt, it doesn't always go over well with school administrators either. Parents and teens: Not enough choices  Another frustration I heard from parents and even some teens is that there just aren't enough moderate options -- both in terms of sexiness and price -- available in stores and online. "I would say the problem is ... that a girl who has sort of a more modern taste ... if (the dresses) are for someone her age, they're too short. They're shorter than they should be," said a mom of two teens, who said it can be extra difficult for tall girls or girls of different body types to find dresses schools deem appropriate. Dresses can also cost hundreds of dollars, which most parents either can't pay or won't pay, she added.   Georgia school hosts first racially integrated prom A 17-year-old named Angela says it's not that most teenagers want to wear revealing prom dresses. It's because they often have no other choice. "I feel as if it is not that teenage tastes have grown 'too sexy' but that the fashion market as a whole encourages young people to dress in a provocative way," she said via e-mail. "When I go to department stores, the majority of prom dresses there seem to have some sort of cut-out on the back or the sides. Otherwise, they are completely unflattering," Angela added. But an editor at Seventeen magazine, which just released its 291-page annual prom issue, says there are plenty of options. Helping teens build a positive body image "There literally is something for everyone, for every body type, for any kind of school regulation, if you have rules or dress codes, anything like that," said Jasmine Snow, accessories editor for Seventeen. "I think it's just about finding the right resources," she said, suggesting Seventeen's dress guide, which includes many style options. The key, says Snow, is for a girl to find a dress she'll feel good and confident wearing. "It also has to be something that your parents feel good about having you wear as well, and I think it's about having that compromise between the parent and the teenager." So many parents, this reporter among them, are concerned about how our girls are growing up so much faster than when we were kids. Clearly, we can't blame prom dresses as the single cause, but they're a factor. "Clothing definitely plays a role in the sexualization of our girls, so from prom dresses to starter bras to shorts, I believe we need to show our girls a broader range of options so they can choose the style that works for them," said Sharon Choksi, a mom of two in Austin, Texas, who got so fed up with the "short shorts" and "teeny bikinis" she started her own clothing company, Girls Will Be. "Girls today receive so many messages that they should focus on their appearance and act more grown-up. I don't want my daughter thinking that is what is most important and is how people will value her," said Choksi. What happens when you put your fears aside Not every parent considers shopping for a teenage daughter's prom dress about as welcome as, let's say, a root canal, doing taxes or cleaning the bathroom. "As a single dad, the entire prom experience was just one more experience I actually looked forward to with my daughter," said Jim Higley, an award-winning author and national fatherhood advocate. "Clothes shopping, shoe shopping -- all the things that are important to my daughter -- they're important to me," the father of three and author of the book "Bobblehead Dad" said. For Tracey Clark of Huntington Beach, California, a mom of two girls and a Babble.com contributor, shopping for prom and other school dance dresses has been so positive she even posted a video online of one of her shopping excursions with her 16-year-old daughter. She credits her happy experiences with planning (they shop for dresses very far in advance) and plain luck. Her daughter has kind of a retro style and doesn't gravitate to the provocative stuff, said Clark, who hosts a blog in her own name and contributes photographs to the collaborative blog Shutter Sisters. Pink, princess-y and sexy too soon "But there are dresses where I'm like, 'Babe, I know you don't like short short things on you and this one from the back looks short short,'" said Clark. Growing up with a "strict and traditional" mother, Clark said she often felt like she didn't fit in because of what she was and was not allowed to wear. She's mindful of that when it comes to her daughters' fashion choices. "I always want to be really careful that I'm not taking something from them that makes them feel normal," she said. Do you think prom dresses have gotten too sexy and skimpy? Chime in in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/14/living/how-kids-see-michael-sam-gq-parents/index.html	living	Explaining Michael Sam to a 7-year-old - CNN.com	2014/05/14	Wednesday May 14 04:25:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- My son has 15 different NFL jerseys, most of which his mother purchased for $3 each at a thrift store. Popular jerseys never make it to the thrift store, which means Max is usually sporting a frayed and ill-fitting schmata advertising a retired player like Donovan McNabb or Priest Holmes, or one you assume had retired like Willis McGahee. He's got players no one likes, players no one remembers, and a player shot to death in a burglary gone wrong. The kid doesn't discriminate based on team, status or even vital signs. He loves football more than anything and it's impossible not to admire his blanket enthusiasm. READ: The undefeated Little League champs from America's most dangerous city Then again, this is a first-grader we're talking about. Max still believes in the tooth fairy and can't wipe his own ass with any kind of proficiency. So, you can imagine we hadn't really had much of a talk about the birds, to say nothing of the bees, when Michael Sam came along earlier this year, big and gay and proud and impossible for a football fan to ignore, even when the fan in question is a half-baked, illiterate thumb-sucker. READ: The 10 habits of highly unflabby people I suppose it helps that Max is a liberal. That may sound perverse, considering he's 7 and not old enough to understand the average Adam Sandler movie, let alone gay rights. But the kid's growing up in a liberal family in a liberal city where he goes to a bleeding-heart private school with other kids whose political leanings have been predetermined since they were hoisting sippy cups. When our upstairs neighbors, Brad and Peter, got married recently, Max's only confusion over the arrangement stemmed from an assumption that they always had been married. READ: Eat healthy all week for just $60 So the Michael Sam conversation in our home wasn't some awkward dance about the existence of real, actual homosexuals in the world, a fact my son already understands and accepts. What he didn't get was why this qualified as a big deal. While the rest of us wrung our hands and debated how this would affect the delicate balance of the manliest locker rooms of America's manliest sport -- or how Michael Sam could possibly thrive in a spotlight so bright for an audience so potentially hostile -- this is how my conversation with Max went. Do you know what gay is? Max: It means you're a man and you like men. Right. Well, Michael Sam, this player from the University of Missouri who wants to play in the NFL, is gay.  Max: OK. And he just told everyone. Max: OK. Is he the only one in the NFL who likes men? No. Max: Does Jay Cutler? I don't think so. Max: Why does it matter? It doesn't. Max: So ... why -- what's the big deal? Because he's the first one who has told everybody. Max: The others are keeping secrets? Yes. Because some people out there don't like gay people.  (long pause) Max: Is he any good? This, I suspect, will be the next generation of American sports fan. The one who shrugs at gay, because gay is just another kind of person, like tall or bald or funny or mean. Max's upbringing may not be typical, but his response -- is he any good? -- seemed right to me. It's basically the same response that his potential teammates and opponents in the NFL have exhibited, professionals who don't have time or interest in anything other than: Can he play? The answer, of course, was yes. He was All-American, the SEC Defensive Player of the Year when he came out. Which was what made him so terrifying to the bigots -- it wasn't just the chance that he'd end up in the NFL, it was the idea that he could be a team's first pick, that a franchise they root for could actively decide to become The Team With the Gay Player. Which might explain why the anti-Sam campaign began almost immediately, the chorus of he's not necessarily a useful choice for a lot of teams, or if you look at his stats, he's not really that great. In the end, 248 players were picked before him. I'm not suggesting we treat Michael Sam as though he's not newsworthy, an approach that contains its own stealth homophobia. When bigots are no longer free to publicly complain about the queers ruining their game, they say things like, "Who cares?" and "Why is this even news?" then they spit their venom onto a safer source: the media, which they accuse of pushing an agenda and pillory for turning the story into a publicity circus. But we should pay attention to the conversation -- to the subtle ways that it diverges from the one I had with my 7-year-old son. When they said Sam wouldn't be drafted because no team would want to deal with the distraction, what they meant was they hoped their team didn't pick him. Are they breathing a sigh of relief now that the Rams are "the gay team"? And what of the players like University of Texas' Case McCoy, who's so open in his prejudice that he took to Twitter to express disgust at one of the most heartwarming moments in the history of sports? Surely McCoy is wishing this whole gay thing would just go away, before he has to play against a guy like Sam, or join him in an NFL locker room. But it won't. Even if Sam warms the bench and gets traded next year, where a whole new fan base has to reevaluate their priorities, it won't go away. If Michael Sam flops, another player will come out, then another and even the most intolerant among us will have to have to deal with the notion that Gay People Are Everywhere. It's obvious that those who still cling to pro football as the last place in America where Boys Can Be Boys, a cozy man cave where they don't have to confront thorny issues like homosexuality, now find themselves confused and angry. They hear about Michael Sam and they feel uncomfortable about the way the world is changing, and they wonder about their place in it. When these fans say they don't care who a player sleeps with so long as he comes to play on Sunday, the subtext is: Don't push this gay stuff in my face and ruin the game I love. When Max says he doesn't care, he means: Do I still get to watch football on Sundays? How did the young football fans in your house react to Michael Sam being drafted? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving with the hashtag #cnnparents or on CNN Living's Facebook page. Read more from GQ: How to cook perfect, crisp roasted potatoes What it's like to be a billionaire's butler A dad's guide to kids, games and the Apple app store  Reprinted with permission of Conde Nast. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/09/living/motherhood-now-vs-then-parents/index.html	living	Longing for the carefree parenting of yesterday? - CNN.com	2014/05/09	Friday May 9 09:16:47 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She's a mom of two girls and lives in Manhattan. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- When Betty Draper of "Mad Men" lit a cigarette on her son's school bus during a class trip in a recent episode, I cracked up. After all, the prospect of a 2014 mom smoking around her child's classmates is about as likely as teens giving up their smartphones. Motherhood has changed a lot since I grew up in the 1960s. Back then, women smoke and drank during pregnancy. (My mom says she even smoked in the hospital after delivering my sisters and me.) Today, expecting women add sushi and lunch meat to their alcohol and smoking bans. Back then, Dr. Spock was the only guide for child-rearing. Today, there are too many manuals to count and Google is just a click away from parental questions answered. Back then, we didn't have playdates. "You went out in the yard or you went out in the street and played," my mom told me with a chuckle. Today, my kids have piano, soccer, basketball, gymnastics and hip-hop dance. How do you spell overscheduled? READ: 7 things mom didn't tell us about growing gray In conversations with moms raising children today and moms who had kids in the 1960s, '70s and '80s, they all agreed that motherhood is a whole lot different nowadays. The question is, has it changed for the better or worse? 'Less of that judgment' Lyz Lenz, a mom of two in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, says part of her wishes she was raising children in the early '80s, like her mom. "I feel like in that pre-Internet era we weren't quite as exposed to other people's pet peeves," said Lenz, who writes a blog in her own name. "There was less of that judgment and less of other people making you insecure. You didn't have to hop on Facebook and see a ton of different people telling you why giving your kid a processed cookie is child abuse." What's different today, says Joanna Mazewski, a mom of two in Coconut Creek, Florida, is the level of paranoia. "It seems like mothers these days are definitely more paranoid and uptight about every little detail of their children's lives, much more than they were 30, 40 years ago," said Mazewski, a Babble.com contributor.  "It just seems that parenthood altogether was much simpler without the education that we have now and the devices ... to be honest with you, I think I prefer the carefree method more than scared-of-everything-we-eat-and-even-our-shadows." READ: She wasn't mom but she loved us  From Dr. Spock to Tiger Mom Jeannette Kaplun, another Babble.com contributor, said the problem is that parents today suffer from "information overload." Dr. Spock was "the bible for parents," when she was born in the 1970s, said the Miami mom of two and host of a bilingual blog called Hispana Global. "Now you have attachment parenting, then you have 'tiger moms,' and people tell you to co-sleep. Others tell you that you are a terrible parent if you co-sleep ... and pediatricians will tell you one thing and then people will search online and they'll find a blog that says completely the opposite and so it's very confusing." Google can be a friend for today's parents, but it also can be a foe, said Lenz, the mom from Cedar Rapids, who shared a story about how she went online late one night when she wasn't able to calm her crying daughter. "I'm like, 'Oh no, maybe she has brain trauma or stomach problems,' and then it's like, 'Oh. No. She's just teething.' " READ: I'm OK with only having one child Ironically, Lenz's mom, Ellen Baranowski, who raised Lyz and her seven siblings starting in the early '80s, thinks the 24/7 access to information is one of the biggest and best parenting differences from when she was a mother. "I think it's great being able to access the Internet at 2 o'clock in the morning when you are just scared to death," Ellen Baranowski said. Janis Brett Elspas, a mom of four in Los Angeles and host of the blog Mommy Blog Expert, said technology can be very powerful for parents today -- when it's used properly. "It's almost like the Life Magazine of this century in that we're totally learning from each other's experiences through the Internet," she said. Less freedom, more schedules Another difference between parenting then and now, moms say, is a loss of freedom and independence during childhood. When Baranowksi and her family moved to a small town in South Dakota from Dallas, she felt comfortable letting her children roam the neighborhood without her. "My kids then could walk to the swimming pool by themselves, and do things that I had no idea what they were doing," the mom of eight said. Today, there's none of that. "My grandkids are getting so scheduled and I understand why," she said. "This is not a complaint on their parenting ... they can't have just unattended moments and it's sad." READ: The photo that changed a teen's life Shannon Bradley-Colleary, a mom of two in Los Angeles who grew up in the '60s and '70s, remembers playing outside by herself as a kid. "A lot of my favorite memories were playing 'war' ... until well after dark with no one even calling to see where I was. So do you think it was neglectful parenting?" the host of the blog The Woman Formerly Known as Beautiful said with a laugh. She concedes there is a definite tradeoff between safety and independence in today's parenting. In her opinion, the tighter control is better, ultimately. "I just think there's a pendulum swing or backlash from those of us raised in the late '60s, early '70s, which was that we were really left to our own devices, and what was great about that, was there was a feeling of autonomy and self-direction," she said. "But there was a much greater risk." 'You're all so concerned with keeping the kids busy' During my first-ever interview of my mom, Judy Wallace of Long Island, New York, I asked her to compare parenting back in the '60s and '70s, when she raised my sisters and me, with parenting today. "The biggest difference is that I feel like you're all so concerned with keeping the kids busy, taking them everyplace and having to take up all their time with activities, where in the '60s, that wasn't the case," she said. "When you were little, you would go out and play with your friends, you kind of entertained yourself more than the parents nowadays, who are constantly trying to entertain the kids." READ: Being a good mom can get you fired But why did we move from the carefree, laissez-faire parenting of the '60s and '70s to the more frenetic helicopter approach of today? "The reality is now we know more about what happens in the world ... so that obviously increases your perception of the world being much less safe," said Kaplun, the Miami mom of two. It's harder to parent today, says Brett Elspas, especially with the influence of media on our children. "It's very, very hard unless you lead a life in a capsule ... Even if you home school your children, they are going to be exposed to stuff. You can't blind them and cover their ears and lead them through and hope they are going to turn out normally as an adult." It could be hard, but we might reduce our stress and even have more fun if we take some notes from our own moms. We need to let our kids chart their own course and make their own mistakes, said Mazewski, the Coconut Creek mom of two. "I've seen toddlers that are already on vegan diets. It's like, 'You've got to allow them to make their own decisions.'" A little wisdom from my own mom: "Kids have to learn disappointment, that they can't have everything and they can't do everything and they can't be good at everything." What do you think are the biggest differences between parenting today and back in the '60s, '70s or '80s? Chime in in the comments below or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter and CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/07/living/race-sterling-identity/index.html	living	Donald Sterling racism is only part of the racial equity conversation - CNN.com	2014/05/07	Wednesday May 7 09:10:06 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Rinku Sen is the president and executive director of Race Forward: The Center for Racial Justice Innovation, and the publisher of Colorlines.com.  (CNN) -- Racism is headline news again. This time, America's conversation on race is focused on whether Donald Sterling is a racist -- and on his apology. But I'm not clear where we go with that conversation: It feels like a never-ending cycle of accusation and defense and less about long-lasting solutions. After all, Sterling is invested in not being seen as a racist and saving his business. When a debate becomes about whether one person is racist, what are the rest of us supposed to do with that? If we want to have a more useful discussion on how to move beyond racism in America, there are more productive ways to do it. First, we have to resist concluding that condemning racist slurs is all that is required to end discrimination. Second, to achieve racial equity, we need to be able to do three things: talk explicitly about race; focus on the impact of policies and practices and the intentions behind them; and support power-building in marginalized communities. Racism has evolved over the past 50 years, and our collective understanding of what constitutes justice, how discrimination functions and how to best address it needs updating. Racial bias is often hidden, unintentional and systemic. That means that it is actually possible to create racist impact, even if there's no easily identifiable racist behind the curtain. The notion that racism is always intentional, individual and overt feeds the false assumption that colorblindness is then the appropriate solution. But the absence of apparent, or even coded, hostility does not necessarily indicate the presence of fairness. That's why we have to be able to ask explicit racial questions. Rather than avoiding racial difference, we should engage it, with the goal of creating actual equity in our workplaces, schools and all the other spaces in which we spend our lives. In the food industry, for example, there is widely accepted racial hierarchy in high-end restaurants. Anyone walking into a three-star restaurant can see that often, the people who have speaking parts at the front of the house are white, while those working for lower wages in the back of the house are employees of color. The Restaurant Opportunities Centers United (ROCUnited) has documented such segregation in New York City, New Orleans and Miami. The organization has challenged prominent restaurant owners and chains to address racial exclusion through new employment practices, which often involve actually formalizing hiring practices such as posting jobs internally first before going external or holding performance reviews. Informality works against equity by making room for all kinds of problematic individual judgments, such as discrimination against applicants with non-European foreign accents. The lack of rules is in itself a kind of policy. A good example is Tom Colicchio, the owner of Craft and a host of "Top Chef." He has a combination of formal employment practices and full intention to build an integrated workforce. Saru Jayaraman of ROCUnited notes that Colicchio "has a good reputation among workers in the industry for being a conscientious employer in this regard, and diners in his restaurants get a visibly different experience of the workforce." An employer's clear intention to make room for people of color and willingness to apply that intention to recruitment, hiring, training and promotion of employee is the combination that enables real change. The second thing we need to create genuine racial equity is to look at the impact of our institutional practices. When the rules of an institution are written down, we call them policies, but unwritten rules also shape institutions, in the form of repeated individual behavior, traditions, rituals or common approaches to problems. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid called for the NFL to take a stand against owner Dan Snyder -- who insists on preserving a team name that many consider racially insensitive -- the way the NBA did against Donald Sterling. Snyder has continued to defend his recalcitrance in the name of "tradition" and to prove his lack of animus toward Native people by establishing a foundation. If I stretch, I can accept that Snyder has no real animus toward Native Americans. Yet, the fact is that stereotypical sports mascots dehumanize the people they represent. Holding onto such a symbol bolsters an image of Native people on which other people negatively act. Lastly, we have to recognize that people who have been marginalized need power to generate racial equality. The tools that create the presence of equity, not just the absence of hostility, have little chance of being implemented in situations where people of color are not organized for collective power. One such tool is the Racial Equity Impact Analysis, which allows us to predict bad outcomes and change course. It works like an environmental impact analysis, which requires any building project to account for potential pollution, noise, traffic and other environmental factors. This worked in Minneapolis, when the Education Equity Organizing Collaborative, a coalition of communities of color, pressed the school board to conduct a racial impact review of proposed school closings. In a rare reversal, the analysis led them to cancel the closing of a community school serving Somali students and to expand the school options available to Native Americans. Now, the Minneapolis Board of Education has adopted a policy of conducting impact analysis on all decisions that affect student learning and resource allocation. None of that would have happened if communities of color weren't organizing themselves. If we want racial equity, we have to want that kind of power-building, too. As we debate issues such as voting rights and affirmative action, the effect on a community's ability to assert its interests has to be part of our calculation of what makes good policy. As a nation, we've come a long way on race, as evidenced by the fact that Sterling was not only condemned by individuals but also sanctioned by an institution. There's nothing stopping us from using these news stories to launch a forward-looking, highly effective, unifying approach to our persistent racial problems. We can generate fairness -- not just punish hostility -- if we have the courage to be explicit, focus on the rules and their impact and encourage power building among people of color. That's what it means to be brave. It's an American virtue. We can feel encouraged to see it in action every day, and we should never stop pushing for more. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Rinku Sen. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/27/living/anna-quindlen-raising-readers/index.html	living	Raising readers: How to share a love of literature with your kids - CNN.com	2014/04/27	Sunday Apr 27 09:47:53 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Parents, how do you keep your kids learning through the summer? We're looking for advice on summer learning from home schooling families! Share your experiences on CNN iReport! (CNN) -- There's learning to read, and then there's loving to read. As the end of the school year approaches, parents are stockpiling ideas to keep their children on top of those long summer reading lists. But how? Bestselling novelist and renowned nonfiction writer Anna Quindlen raised three avid readers who are also a big part of her work. Her eldest son, Quin Krovatin, now 29, helped research and write her 2004 travelogue, "Imagined London," and her fun and foibles as a parent found their way into her other writing, without exposing too many details about them. ("Books and columns come and go, but your kids are there forever," she said.) Quindlen recently took some time on her tour to promote her new novel, "Still Life with Bread Crumbs," to offer some guidance on raising kids who are passionate about reading. It's never too early to read to children -- and don't stop Quindlen and her husband, Gerald Krovatin, started reading to their three kids from the start. "We read to them from the time they were very little," she said. When Quin was 5, he showed his mother just how much the reading message hit home. "I took him for a school interview, which is a horrid rite of passage in Manhattan. And the interviewer came out and said, 'And how long has he been reading?' And I said, 'Oh he can't read. He's only in kindergarten.' And she said, 'No, he reads.' I thought, 'Oh I'm the world's worst mother.' " She laughed, and continued: "I said, 'Quin? You can read?' He sort of shook his head. And I said, 'Why didn't you tell me?' And he said, 'Because I was afraid you wouldn't read to me anymore.' "So I told him then that I would read to him forever." Just because your children can read, doesn't mean they don't want to share books with their parents. Sharing "Harry Potter" with your children can be even more fun than reading it alone the first time. Make reading the reward Once kids can read by themselves, present books as a treat, rather than a task. Even if their teachers ask them to read at home for 20 minutes a day after school, urge your children to read for an hour or more -- by choice. " 'All right, if you're good tonight, you can read for a half an hour after you get into bed.' If you make reading seem like castor oil, it's no surprise that your kids won't want to do it. If you make it seem like chocolate pudding and a milkshake combined, they will be thrilled to do it," Quindlen said. Be a model reader The more you read yourself, the more children will yearn to read often, too. Fill your home with books, whether on tablets or tables, and make sure your kids see you reading, and enjoying it. Quindlen said her three children grew up seeing their mother behind a book so often that they might ask: " 'What does mom's face look like when there's not a book in front of it? Does anyone remember?' " Be the reader you want your children to become. Match books to children's interests ... Take advantage of the wide range of books for children. Quindlen advises, "If you have a boy who is an indefatigable jock, don't give him 'A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.' That's not his book. Give him Jane Leavy's biography of Sandy Koufax. Or give him some great young adult novel about a baseball team. Once you know who your kids are, you've got to pick out the books that are right for them." Other reading experts agree that getting children excited about reading involves knowing them well, and choosing books that cater to their interests. "One of the best ways to inspire children to read is to help them find books that speak to them as individuals, so that reading isn't this isolated, fraught activity that they do at school," says Victoria Ford Smith, an assistant professor at the University of Connecticut who specializes in children's literature. "It's an infinitely fertile field to be in." Ford teaches Roald Dahl's books to undergraduates at the University of Connecticut, and cites the author who wrote "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "Matilda," and many others as one of her favorites. For children who are accustomed to having adults make all of the decisions about their lives, Dahl's stories are a refreshing escape. "He really turns the tables on who has the power in his books," she said. "Usually it's children who are powerful, and adults who are ridiculous." Try something different for parents and kids From Dahl, to Sendak, to Dr. Seuss and others, young readers are spoiled for choice. There's a reason why Dr. Seuss in particular gets a nationwide celebration -- or Seussibration, for those in the know -- on his birthday, March 2: He created a niche with his wacky characters, and accessible writing style. "It's a really simple vocabulary; it's easy to begin to read, if you're a beginning reader, but (the books) still have a really great sense of humor," said Madigan McGillicuddy, a children's librarian in Atlanta. "There is so much packed in there that builds a lifetime love of reading." Children's books have come a long way since the days of "Dick and Jane," which seem a bit stilted next to what's on today's bookshelves. Now, most children's books have intricate illustrations, and wildly imaginative plots. "What mostly attracts me to children's literature is how complex it is," Ford said. "We often have a misconception that children's literature is literature for adults with simpler language, and happy endings." Really, children's literature brings their fears and frustrations to life. Ford cited Maurice Sendak's "Where the Wild Things Are," about a boy who gets sent to bed without his supper, but can imagine a world where he rules a land of wild giants. For parents, revisiting favorite stories from their own childhoods can engage them in reading along with their kids, and inspire them to beg for the next book. As Quindlen said, "I made it seem like reading was the greatest thing since sliced bread because that's how I feel." By the end of the summer, parents and kids who follow her advice might feel the same way. Which books made you want to read more as a child? Share your favorites in the comments, on Twitter @CNNschools or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/09/living/wedding-night-matrimony/index.html	living	What really happens on your wedding night - CNN.com	2014/05/09	Friday May 9 09:25:46 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Is the wedding night really all it's cracked up to be? With statistics showing that anywhere from 25% to 52% of couples don't even get around to having sex, we figured we ought to find out what they're doing instead. From passing out due to exhaustion to just passing out drunk, here are seven true tales from brides and grooms of how their big night actually went down. Spent the night in the hospital instead "At our reception, my husband decided to do the worm on the dance floor. About 20 minutes later, my best friend found me and frantically said, 'Do you know your husband is bleeding to death in the kitchen?' I ran into the kitchen area outside the main ballroom and found my husband and my dad's cousin trying to stop the blood spurting from my husband's chin with paper towels. While doing the worm, my husband accidentally slammed his chin into the dance floor before his chest and split his chin open. My husband, who looked very green from all the blood running down his tuxedo, said he needed a drink of water. Because it was close to the end of the reception and the bar was closed, I searched everywhere for a bottle of water. When I finally found one and ran back to the kitchen, my husband was gone. I thought I'd find him in the back of an ambulance, but instead I found him back on the dance floor with a butterfly bandage over his chin being body passed by his friends. After the reception, we headed to the hospital for stitches, which is where we spent the night!" -- Rebecca, 39 Brides: The Most Flattering Wedding Dress for Your Body Type Passed out drunk "I got super drunk at my wedding and passed out on my wedding night. We had planned an after party in our suite so there were 10 to 15 people over partying while I slept. They ordered pizza and I was told people were jumping up and down on my bed trying to wake me. I didn't know any of that happened, and I had the worst hangover the next day. We had to be up at 6 a.m. to take a plane to Maui, Hawaii, for our honeymoon. It was horrendous." -- Damon, 35 Brides: Kim Kardashian's Wedding Dress! 11 Fantasy Sketches Too tired to even talk "I had expected my wedding night to be this crazy time, up all night, the works. We got into a hot bath and I don't think I could carry a conversation. All I could think about was how tired and hungry I felt, so we ordered pizza. While we waited, we watched 'The Wedding Singer' -- and I passed out. Not a light sleep, out cold. My husband had to shake me awake to eat before I passed out again. I did not know I would be so tired. I had to sleep for the better part of three days to recover." -- Leah, 27 Brides: The Most Creative Wedding Cakes of the Year A storybook wedding night "I asked my best man and his parents to help me set up the hotel room. When we entered there were rose petals on the floor leading to the refrigerator and the bed. At the fridge were chocolate covered strawberries. The petals leading to the bed showed that the bed was also decorated with a rose petal heart as well as LED flickering candles, which added to the romantic feel. My wife loved it! She was surprised, because she didn't think I could have had time to do it. She also said it was the most romantic thing anyone had ever done for her." -- Andrew, 27 Brides: Gorgeous Plus Size Wedding Dresses Determined to do the deed "I made it a point to make sure we had sex on our wedding night. Even though we partied until 2 a.m. on our wedding night and we were completely exhausted (and a bit drunk), we still did the deed as newlyweds. The funny thing is, I had this sexy, intricately strappy lingerie outfit I planned on wearing, but I ditched that plan and my husband didn't blame me one bit." -- Jenna, 26 Brides: Expecting (and Engaged!) Celebrities Encountered an unexpected visitor "Let's just say my aunt walked in on us! She thought we were at our own after party and made the hotel staff open the door. We obviously didn't answer and froze to make her go away. Then in she comes with two other people with all of our gifts! We were mortified and started yelling at them to go away. Mood killed. No after-party after that. And nothing else either .... except sleep." -- Lauren, 26 Brides: The Most Beautiful Honeymoon Destinations Tears of alcohol "Leading up to our wedding, my recently married friends kept reminding us to enjoy ourselves, because not only is the night short, but it's also really expensive. So we did; we got wasted. My wife completely forgot about her father-daughter dance. Plus she slept on the bus ride from the venue to the hotel. When we retired for the night she cried because she didn't remember much from the night. It was kinda funny." -- Mark, 31 Did you do the deed on your wedding night? Tell us in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page!   Reprinted with permission of Conde Nast. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/08/living/going-gray-natural-hair/index.html	living	7 mother-inspired reasons to consider having gray hair - CNN.com	2014/05/08	Thursday May 8 09:37:43 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Our mothers and the women we look up to offer our first lessons in beauty and personal maintenance. They tell us whether it's acceptable to leave the house without a painted face, well-coiffed hair or shaved legs. They send those messages both indirectly, through their own beauty rituals, and directly, with a well-placed, "No, you are not going out looking like that!" Ultimately, what we decide to do as adults comes down to individual choice and evolving beauty ideals, but mom's old routines can stick with us as we age, especially when it comes to gray hair. Even as fashion, makeup and hairstyles change, the pressure for women to cover up gray hair endures, no matter how many lists or articles tell us to embrace natural beauty. And yet, there's hope! Take it from these women who chose to stop covering their grays in their 20s and 30s. They have nothing against women who choose to color their hair, but this is what works for them. They shared their most compelling reasons for embracing the look. Let us know in the comments what you would add or dispute! It's a great way to rebel against mom -- and challenge beauty standards Watching her mother fret over finding the right color and hairstylist made Kelly Barrows want to do the exact opposite. She never understood why her mom did not appreciate her thick, beautiful curls, which Barrows herself coveted. "She's so beautiful and all she sees is what she could change," she said. While Barrows, 27, can't influence her mother's attitude toward aging or appearance, she can change her own. Her grays are just starting to come in, but she's looking forward to more, and she has no plans to hide them. "I like showing my mom that I can take pride in it and it's not something to be ashamed of." Christine Candelaria also has vivid memories of how the women in her life were tied to the messy rituals of dying their "canas" every few months at home: stains, chemicals running down their foreheads, accidentally choosing an unflattering shade. "I clearly remember sitting on my mom's bed in eighth grade, watching her hair ritual, and declaring out loud that I would NEVER dye my hair. I remember thinking to myself that I wanted to grow old naturally." Or, you can honor the silver foxes in your life Ty Alexander's mother and father never colored their hair, so she was used to seeing adults own the look with confidence. "For me it was just what our family did. It wasn't a second thought," said 37-year-old Alexander, who stopped coloring her grays when she was 25. "I knew I would stop dying it because that's what we all did." Larissa Pissarra, 42, also took style cues from her mother's natural approach to personal maintenance. Her mother wore minimal makeup and never colored her hair, not even when it started graying. "She looked great no matter what," she said. "When she started graying, she didn't do any color, and she didn't seem to care." It's cheaper than being a "slave" to the stylist Pissarra didn't pay much attention to her grays as they started coming in in her 20s. But when the odd strand turned into streaks, her stylist gave her an ultimatum. "She said, 'You have to decide right now. You either start coloring now, or you never start, because after you start you become a slave to it,'" Pissarra recalls. It was an easy decision for Pissarra, who didn't wear much makeup or do much with her hair to begin with. Her hair was healthy, so why mess with it? "At first it was more of a financial and practical thing. I thought it would be reasonable for me," she said. "Then I started reading about chemicals and stuff and realized I didn't want all that in my head." You can still play around with products and styling Alexander's hair has been through just about every style and color since she began experimenting with her look at age 14. By the time she reached her mid-20s, her hair was getting brittle from all the experimentation. By then, the gray streaks that her parents passed on had become visible. She decided to stop coloring before her hair fell out, but that didn't mean she had to stop experimenting. Alexander tries different shampoos, conditioners and DIY remedies to keep her color from getting dull or brassy. Her go-to method is a mixture of peroxide, water and conditioner to strip product from her hair and keep the color bright. You've earned them!  It's all about perspective, and those who embrace their grays often see them as badges of honor that reflect experience and wisdom accumulated over the years. "Obviously part of it is genetics, but I also feel like it's part of who I am," said 49-year-old Marya McCabe, who stopped coloring her hair in her early 30s. Three years ago, the married mother of two left Microsoft after more than a decade to start her own consulting firm. She thinks her gray hair lends "credibility" to her background, both personally and professionally. "I really see my gray hair as a representation of my experience," she said. "I did something to earn these grays." For Kelly Barrows, her first few grays validated the stress she felt from motherhood. Barrows suffered from postpartum depression after the birth of her first child, though she didn't realize it at first. She was overwhelmed by the new responsibilities and anxious over losing her identity, but struggled to see it as something more than "run-of-the-mill" experiences of any new mother. "To come out of it gray-haired is affirming that the stress is real and that the struggle is real," Barrows said. "I have real visual evidence to show that it's been hard. It wasn't in my head or invented." It makes you stand out Apart from her silver sheen, McCabe considers herself pretty average for a Seattle woman; she skips makeup and wears jeans on most days. "I'm very vanilla in every other way, but my hair makes me unique," McCabe said. "My hair makes me stand out physically and because I've chosen to do something different it has become sort of an identifier for me." When Alexander was preparing to launch a lifestyle blog in 2010, she knew after more than a decade of experience that her hair would be the first thing people noticed. Her blog, "Gorgeous in Gray," celebrates her look while dishing on the latest in style and beauty news and trends. "It's the first thing people see, which is also one of the marketing reasons I chose it," she said. "I use my hair to keep my name in people's mouths." Strangers will compliment you Alexander swears that not a day goes by without someone stopping her in the street to talk about her hair. Usually, it's a compliment followed by questions about her age, her history with hair care and how she maintains it. Larissa Pissarra says she gets more compliments from strangers on her hair with each passing year; some even ask if her silver highlights are the product of a salon. "Women come up to me and say 'You inspire me.' That makes me feel good," she said. "Guys make compliments, too. They don't seem to care as much about our hair as we do. It's more in our heads than it is in theirs." Another reason going gray is one more option to add to your beauty toolbox: You can always change your mind! How do you feel about going gray? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page!   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/02/living/11-things-weddings-taught-me-matrimony/index.html	living	11 things I learned at your wedding - CNN.com	2014/05/02	Friday May 2 10:06:38 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- My book, "Save the Date: The Occasional Mortifications of a Serial Wedding Guest," chronicles my life through the many weddings I've attended,from the nuptials of distant relatives I witnessed at the age of 8 while wearing a ruffled lavender dress, to a far more recent event at which I wore redsilk and suede pumps and accompanied a new boyfriend. More important than my age and attire, though,are the experiences I've had and what they've taught me about love, friendship, myself, and (not least) being a wedding guest.Here's what I've learned. 1. Weddings are not just about the couple getting married. Make no mistake, the lovely twosome about to wed are who you're there for; this event is the reason you took three days off work and put$800 on your credit card. But no modern wedding would be complete without a group of friends and family there to support, cheer on, andsometimes roast the happy couple. In the wedding ecosystem, what keeps everyone grooving out on thedance floor, clinking glasses with forks and weeping happy tears are the strong interrelationships between the people there. A wedding wouldn't be a wedding without the guests. 2. You can say no to a wedding without saying no to a friendship. I wish someone would have told me this early on in my wedding-going life, I might have saved a bit of cash. There are times when itsimply doesn't make sense to go to a wedding, for your own personal reasons: finances, lack of vacation days, familial obligations,state of mind. But this doesn't necessarily mean the end. A few years ago, some very good friends decided to marry in India. I'd juststarted a new job and couldn't afford the time off or the cost of the trip. So I said no, and, months later, got to attend their legally binding U.S. ceremony at CityHall in Manhattan. As my dad told me when I interviewed him for "Save the Date": "It's the journey, not the destination." That'swhat matters in a friendship, too. It's not the one day, it's all the days. 3. Give the gift you want to give.  This is a controversial statement, but I'm standing by it  with some caveats. If you know themarrying couple well and the gifts on the registry seem impersonal and you have an idea for a present you know they'll love, by all means, do it. "It's the thought that counts" should apply to everyone in receipt of a gift, including people getting married. You canalso include a gift receipt, just in case. 4. No date is better than any date. It can seem tempting (particularly in later years when people are beginning topair up) to grab the nearest available sir or madam and ask them to attend the wedding with you. Consider that movecarefully. Just because someone is able to put on a suit and tie and sit at a table does not mean you want him there for what's bound tobe an emotional moment in a dear friend's life (and possibly yours, too). It's really freeing to go to a wedding by yourself, to knowyou can do it, and not have to take care of a date who may not know anyone else there. It's even better not to go to a wedding with aperson you hardly know, who ends up behaving poorly. 5. Open bars are not your enemy, but open tequila-shot bars might be.  Enjoy the signature cocktails andthe refills of good white wine, but be careful. Know your limitations, even as they seem to grow farther away the more you drink. Drink water between every glass of something stronger, or just make sure to drink water. And if there's a tequilabar set on the cliffs at a destination wedding in Jamaica, limit yourself to one shot, lest things get too murky. 6. Eat.  One of the most obvious things a person should do is eat the food provided. After all, the couple has gone to thetrouble of choosing it. But weddings can be full of so many things to see and people to talk to and all of a suddenthey're playing "All the Single Ladies" and you just want to get up and dance and where's that cute guy again, the one who was makinggoo-goo eyes at you from table 13? Only later, you may realize that you don't feel so well, what with the signature cocktails and the factthat all you ingested was a couple bites of the salad they served before the main course. And you end up back in thehotel room, eating Cheetos or a granola bar or an old, bruised apple from the bottom of your duffel bag, making goo-goo eyes at no onebut yourself. So eat. 7. Don't flirt with the staff.  This can seem tempting. They are so nice! They are serving you, giving you whatever you need, beforeyou even know you need it! Note: They are paid to do this. This does not mean they want to be your friend, nor your new boy-orgirlfriend. They are doing a job. So treat them professionally and kindly, and go flirt with someone else. 8. Do flirt with other (single!) people.  This is part of the fun of a wedding! But make sure they are single, because sometimes,even at weddings, people don't tell you this right off the bat (trust me, I know). Also make sure that they are not a relative of the bride orgroom or a person with whom it would be very awkward or potentially disastrous for you to flirt ... the bride's dad, for instance. If the brideor groom has highly recommended a particular person to you as a hook-up, you are free to go for that person or ignore him or hercompletely in favor of another. You don't have to do everything they say, just because it's their wedding day. 9. Your feelings are legitimate, whatever they may be.  Depending on where you are in your life, you may not be attending the event with the most positive, rose-colored-glasses vibe. You might feel downright crappy aboutlove, relationships or what you see as a lack of success. If you feel that way, acknowledge it and hang out withit for however long you need. Go to yoga, get a massage, buy a great new dress, go on a 5-mile run, watch a "Law & Order" marathon,or whatever it is that you do to treat yourself before you go to this event. But once you're there, try your best to be in the moment. You may find that when it's all over, you'll go home feeling a lot better. And if you don't, you can wake up the next dayand try again. 10. Honesty really is the best policy  including to yourself.  Above all, be real. Let yourself feel what youfeel. If you have something to tell the bride or groom before they get married, do it, with kindness and honesty. But do it weeks or months before theceremony or reception  not minutes! Also be honest about what this day means, how you would like to celebratethe people you are there for and how you would like to celebrate it for yourself. If you mess up, to yourself, to anyone, apologize. 11. There is no such thing as a perfect day.  Something will go wrong; these meticulously arranged parties with numerous guestsare chock-full of opportunities for just about anything to go a little bit awry. But the only thing that can really go wrong is letting whatevergoes wrong ruin the day  and this goes for the marrying couple as well as the guests. Take what happens in stride. This is only oneday; the couple have the rest of their life together, and you have the rest of your friendship life with them, too. Plus, often the things thathappen that no one planned for are the things that make a wedding most memorable, and the things you'll all still be laughing about 20years from now. Learn more about the author at jendoll.com.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/living/white-people-diversity-identity/index.html	living	The uncomfortable role white parents play in diversity - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 08:13:16 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Susan Bodnar is a clinical psychologist who teaches at Columbia University's Teachers College and at the Stephen Mitchell Center for Relational Studies. She lives in Manhattan with her husband, two children and all of their pets. (CNN) -- In my family, I'm always bringing up stories from the past, our family's story, our diversity. My daughter often rolls her eyes. "We don't need to keep talking about this stuff. We get it." My son admonishes. "We know!" In truth, their schools have done of a good job trying to make their population more closely resemble our country and our world. My kids have friends of all races, cultures and social classes. However, as a female white mom married to a male white dad with two biologically conceived white children, I'm trying to make a different point. I want them to understand that light skin color is not the norm from which everyone differs. White is not the signifier of normal. Many white kids take diversity for granted. They have worked hard to overcome stereotypes and bias and to accept other people as different. The fact that they may be someone else's diversity rarely occurs to them, let alone most white adults. Three influences have altered my white-centric perspective: my psychology students, the people with whom I work in my clinical practice and the diversity work of both my kids' New York City private schools. Some of my psychology students wanted to write a children's book where every character had a different identity. Children's books generally feature characters of one race or ethnicity, not multiple identities in interaction with one another. When we finished our first draft, we realized our characters had become very close friends. They each came from a different place but everyone had came from somewhere. Skin color doesn't define personhood, but since race is a marker of identity in our society, the experience of personhood includes having to deal with the meanings others attribute to racial identity. Protected by the privacy of a clinical relationship, beautiful black and brown women have shared how ugly they feel. Gentle dark-skinned men convey the humiliation that overcomes them when white people mistake them for dangerous criminals. Since whiteness has become synonymous with a better life, it is easy for any lighter-skinned person to use skin color as a shield against hurtful stereotypes about social class, gender, sexuality, family history or even mental illness. When white people deny their own embarrassing identity markers, we perpetuate the hypocrisy that only people of color have these problems. As a psychologist -- no, as a person -- recognizing status and identity anxiety as a mutual experience lifts the veil that ordinarily separates us from each other. This year, the parents association at one of my kids' schools named me co-chair of the diversity committee. I felt so self-conscious. Group leadership called forth a greater reckoning with my identity than simply participating in a committee. It also provided me the chance to experience being a minority member of a group. Sometimes I sat as the only white person at the table feeling really insecure, worried that I would be seen as a white stereotype instead of as myself. How did growing up white with financial struggles intersect with racial diversity? When white people want to "help" people of color, it always reeks of privilege and entitlement as in, "let me help you with your problems." It's a different sentiment than "let's help each other with our problems." Did people of color trust me? Did they wonder what I was doing on the diversity committee? Was it my job to speak for the concerns of underrepresented minorities? Or did I contribute more by trying to put forth a more multifaceted approach to the question of identity? How can we sit with each other's differences without feeling compelled to rank one way of being or looking as being better or worse than the other? Our diversity committee ultimately worked through these questions in our conversations. Although we did not fully answer them, we found that by talking about them, we discovered the theme of our work and developed a friendship. I now look at diversity as something that is in my interest: I want to live in a society where dignified difference constitutes our common core. Nuances in how we think, feel, work and love define what it means to be human. Everyone is unusual and unique. Racism is just another word for hating our realness. Our commonality as a country derives from the fact that we all have an identity just beneath the surface of our skins. The variety of stories that inhabit the people who call this country home -- from the brutality of slavery to the flight from genocides to the call to some better god -- enable democracy's creative synergy. The hands that have built the instruments of modern America have been every color, every nationality and every religion. I want to be part of a world that loves and embraces humanity as a diverse and interconnected organism. I want to be part of a world that accepts that every difference has a color, and every color has a unique meaning. How do I do this? I realized that it starts at home. Rather than teaching my kids that they are white, I want to impart to them that they are part of a kaleidoscope -- lots of continually shifting colors and shapes. They don't always want to hear their parents tell another story about grandpa's poverty or the coal-mining relatives. But this history holds our family's painful and joyous truths. Every family need only peel back the layers of a few generations to find their own story. Authentic family history exposes everyone's diversity. A society that embraces uniqueness loves the messiness of the human condition. Being loved despite or because of our messy truths creates empathy rather than sympathy. When we raise children to accept and acknowledge their own story, they learn to listen to someone else's, with respect. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Susan Bodnar. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/living/marry-terminally-ill-person-matrimony/index.html	living	Terminally ill partners can still marry - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 08:47:51 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- As wedding season gears up this month, the words "in sickness and in health" and "till death do us part" will lie at the heart of many vows. For couples who are facing a terminal illness, these promises are a bittersweet reminder of the limits of time; gratitude for the days and months they have, ache for those they might not. On June 1, residents of Illinois will witness their state's first day of marriage equality, but for Pat Ewert, 66, the day's expressions of love will be tempered by a slight pang as she watches many of her friends lawfully unite. "I don't have that person to celebrate with. It's painful, but I'm so happy for all my friends," Ewert says. On November 27, 2013, Ewert and Vernita Gray, her partner of five years and one of Chicago's most steadfast gay rights activists, were granted an expedited marriage license by a federal judge. It was the state's first legally recognized same-sex marriage, and there was a purpose to the haste: Gray's breast cancer had metastasized in her sternum and eventually, her brain. "These two women, who have loved and cared for each other in good times and bad, through sickness and through health, will get to know what it means to be married," Camilla Taylor, Marriage Project director for Lambda Legal, an LGBT rights organization, said in a statement shortly after the decision. For Ewert and Gray, marriage is and was the ultimate display of commitment. "It was weird for me to start using 'wife,'" Ewert says. "There is a real difference." Gray passed away on March 19, 2014, at the age of 65 -- just shy of the couple's four-month wedding anniversary. Ewert says the marriage ceremony was a moment of pure, unbridled joy that had been a long time coming (the couple had been engaged since Christmas 2009), but that they had always been "just a couple of little old ladies who live in a condo in Chicago" with the wish that "at some point, people will get that we're just another couple." "[She's] the first thing that I think about when I wake up, and the last thing at night," Ewert says of her late wife. When a boyfriend dies, does the grief mean less? Caring for both parties Diana Denholm, a psychotherapist, wrote the book "The Caregiving Wife's Handbook," after her personal life and professional expertise overlapped. Her own husband, John Sammond, was diagnosed with colon cancer, then congestive heart failure. Her husband received his diagnosis in 1994, one month into their engagement, along with the information that he was facing a 20% survival rate. "It's a big decision, and it's not an easy decision. I know after my husband got his diagnosis, he let me out of saying 'yes,'" Denholm says. But she walked down the aisle, and took care of Sammond until the time of his death 11 years later on January 31, 2006. Since then, she's devoted her professional career to helping people understand the realities of the day-to-day while partners navigate terminal illness. It might include issues of intimacy, household management or most importantly, the well partner's own self-care. Denholm says it's primarily important to manage expectations of how hands-on the healthy spouse will be in the caretaking, for instance, if they will quit their job and focus on caretaking full-time. "I can't stress that enough, and if you don't, then you're in it," Denholm says. There's also guilt and denial: Guilt of being vilified if the relationship doesn't work out while one partner remains sick, and the guilt of "why them, not me," if it does. Ewert readily admits she was in denial until Gray's final moments. Gray had survived breast cancer before, and Ewert was sure she could again. "I told her she owed me another 19 years. You owe me more," Ewert recalls telling Gray, despite Gray admitting this time was different. "Some of that [denial] is good. If we went into everything with a horrible outlook, that wouldn't be helpful," psychotherapist Denholm says. Beyond that, Denholm explains, it's important to understand the concept of enabling; the healthy spouse often feels the need to do every single task, turning the sick person into an invalid. If it's something the afflicted person can manage, let them do it. It's about collaboration, not animosity. When the relationship becomes more like that of a parent and child, intimacy is lost, she says. Denholm stresses that physical affection and connection may no longer be expressed as "intercourse" in the sense most people understand it; it could just mean lying next to the person, gently holding their hand or massaging them. "Intimacy can remain until the very end, and in some ways the intimacy can strengthen," she says. Even though that's helpful for the couple on their journey, someone is eventually left behind to go it alone. "No matter how prepared you are for when they die, it's always painful when they die," Denholm says. 'Hanging on a moment' Jeff Lang just celebrated what would have been his wife's 36th birthday at her favorite gelato shop. For him, the wound is still raw. "A lot of people say, 'You'll get over it.' I don't want to. I want to get on with it, but with this being a huge part of what has shaped my life and love now, I will always honor that," Lang said in an e-mail this week. Lang married Jen Bulik-Lang in July 2013. She was diagnosed with stage 4 lung cancer in December 2012, but had recently been told that even after five months of treatments, continuing treatment would not help her prognosis. The couple decided it was now or never. Their wedding captivated the national media after an event planner, Erica Becks, got local vendors to step up and create their dream ceremony -- all the way down to a New Orleans' style Second Line. The couple's first dance was to an acoustic version of Lady Gaga's "Edge of Glory." "That line -- 'hanging on a moment with you' -- that's what we're doing right now. We really don't know what's next. Even though we got this bad news, we're not letting that defeat us, we're still on that edge of glory," Lang told CNN in August right after their wedding. "I'm choosing to live and be part of his life for how long forever is," Bulik-Lang said at the time. Bulik-Lang passed away in their Mountain View, California, home three months later on October 12, 2013. "Jen said to me once, 'I'm not afraid, I'm just sad' and we lived it that way," Lang says now, seven months after her passing. "We knew we would miss it if it was gone, so we made the most of every minute." Lang says that not having a future dictated their outlook on life, and it is how he continues to live. "I don't see accomplishments and money as the prime drivers of my day-to-day life. I love, and I have relationships that are deep and meaningful, I go out of my way to make that happen," he says. Funny obits bring new life to a dying art A wedding wish Wedding planner Liz Guthrie always cherished the "special day," but she didn't quite know how special it could be to couples facing serious health problems until she began organizing a dream wedding giveaway in 2009 to couples who had endured some sort of hardship. More than 400 applicants applied, and Guthrie noticed many had a common theme: Limited time together. From there, she founded Wish Upon A Wedding, a nonprofit devoted to providing weddings and vow renewals to couples who are facing terminal illness. The organization is now working on its 65th wedding wish. "The ceremony itself is so important to so many people," Guthrie says. Tina and Lance Martin of St. Louis were granted their ceremony by the organization on June 27, 2011. When the couple first met, Tina was undergoing chemotherapy for stage 4 non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Tina's chemotherapy treatments ended in February 2009, and she is now five years in remission. Shortly before their engagement in March 2011, Lance was himself diagnosed with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, a kidney disease that results in renal failure if not treated regularly with dialysis or, more permanently, a transplant. Medical details and prognosis limits did not define their wedding day. Their moments -- however many they had left -- were at the core of the celebration. Now, three years later, their story is still being written. "Getting married to the love of my life is the greatest blessing," Tina says. "It was nice not to have to think about medical and health problems during this time, and we were able to focus on something bigger and better-- our marriage." "Every day is a struggle, but we have one goal in mind," she says. "Happily ever after." Have you faced a terminal illness in your relationship? Share your story in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving, or on CNN Living's Facebook page.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/living/dont-wash-jeans-levis-ceo/index.html	living	Don't machine wash your jeans, says Levi's CEO - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 10:07:38 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Levi Strauss CEO Chip Bergh has some unusual style advice for 501 fans: Step away from the washing machine. The denim honcho shared the words of wisdom this week at Fortune's Brainstorm Green conference in Laguna Niguel, California. "These jeans are maybe a year old and these have yet to see a washing machine," he said of the pair he wore during a chat onstage. "I know that sounds totally disgusting." He recommended spot cleaning jeans with a sponge or toothbrush and a bit of detergent, then air drying. He says you should very seldom machine wash. "If you treat them right, they'll last a long, long time -- probably longer than most people's waistline." He added that less washing equals greater environmental sustainability. READ: Do you care where your clothes come from? It's not new advice. Designer Tommy Hilfiger has made similar comments. And CNN's Anderson Cooper told style expert Stacy London two years ago that he washes his jeans very rarely. Jeans aficionados may be accustomed to hearing some unusual tips on keeping their denim products fresh. Advice ranges from spot cleaning jeans and never washing them to freezing them to kill any germs. Jolie Kerr, who writes a column called "Ask a Clean Person," says it depends on your lifestyle and hygiene preferences. "Consider how you're wearing your jeans and make laundering decisions accordingly," said Kerr, who recently released the book "My Boyfriend Barfed in My Handbag ... and Other Things You Can't Ask Martha." "The way you'd care for a pair of jeans that you wear for yardwork versus ones you'd wear out dancing should be different -- the function should dictate how you treat a pair of jeans." Opinion: The great jean debate - freeze 'em or wash 'em?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/24/living/2014-college-commencement-speakers/index.html	living	College commencement speakers for 2014 announced - CNN.com	2014/04/24	Thursday Apr 24 09:59:57 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's that time of year when colleges around the country announce the people who will offer the last lesson to soon-to-be graduates: the commencement speakers. This year, some universities are drawing on famous alumni: The University of New Hampshire featured 1992 New Hampshire graduate Jennifer Lee, the Oscar-winning screenwriter and director of Disney's hit film "Frozen." Others competed for high-profile speakers like President Barack Obama, who will speak at University of California-Irvine, and first lady Michelle Obama, who spoke at Dillard University in New Orleans, as well as a high school senior recognition ceremony in Topeka, Kansas, and a college access program in Washington. Regardless of the school, expect some tough talk, quotable wisdom and a few zingers. "Nobody cares how tough your upbringing was," President Obama told graduates of Morehouse College in Atlanta in 2013. "Nobody cares if you suffered some discrimination. And moreover, you have to remember that whatever you've gone through, it pales in comparison to the hardships previous generations endured -- and they overcame them. And if they overcame them, you can overcome them, too," The gallery above shows some high-profile commencement speakers that grads will hear from this spring. Who was your graduation speaker? Share your memories in the comments, on Twitter @CNNschools or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  
http://www.cnn.com/2012/05/31/living/spelling-bee-experience/index.html	living	The agony and ecstasy of the National Spelling Bee - CNN.com	2012/05/31	Thursday May 31 02:38:42 EDT 2012	(CNN) -- In 2001, I walked into the editorial pit of the men's magazine where I was working as an art director and saw the almost all-dude staff glued to ESPN coverage. As I glimpsed the TV screen, a shock of panic and nausea wracked my body, and I bolted from the room. A friend followed to find me huddled in a ball at my desk. "I was ... there," I admitted. "In the Bee. I lost." He grabbed my shoulders and shoved me back in front of my colleagues, still staring rapt at the rows of fresh-faced kids, competing their hearts out at the National Spelling Bee. "DUDE! Kat was THERE!" They swarmed around and pressed me for details: the words, the kids, the prizes, meeting the president, the "crying room," the pressure. It began to dawn on me that they didn't give two sloppy syllables that I hadn't won -- just that I'd been there, and that was incontrovertibly cool. But it didn't feel cool at the time, and here I am again, in the middle of my annual freakout. Karla Miller is right there with me. The two of us met as competitors in the 1986 National Spelling Bee, where I wilted in the third round on "phyllophorous" and she slogged through until nearly the end, eventually biting it on "dentifrice." We re-struck a friendship at this time last year, mostly because we both still shared the solid core of warmth and weirdness that drew us together 25 years before but also because it helps to have someone around who's endured a similar trauma. Being a Bee kid is rough stuff, and it sticks with you. Miller, now an associate director of editorial communications at KPMG and author of the Washington Post Magazine's @Work Advice column, can't stomach the media coverage. "I get this sickly twist in my gut when I see it on TV," she said. "I haven't seen 'Spellbound' (a documentary about the Bee), although everyone tells me I should. I know it sounds like I'm being dramatic, but I think watching it requires a level of detachment that's hard to achieve when you've been there." READ: National Spelling Bee fast facts Katie Lambert agrees. The Atlanta-based editor still feels the sting of her 1998 Bee loss. She declines to disclose the word that felled her, and though she realizes that being a Bee veteran holds some geek cachet, she mostly just wants to put it all behind her. "That fear of getting onstage and choking completely still haunts me," she said. "For a time, I was a Middle Eastern dancer, and I think that lingering fear held me back from ever doing my best. I would get onstage, see the lights and the people, and flash back. To this day, when I see coverage of the Bee, I feel a little sick. That loss still hurts, and the humiliation is still there." And with annual Bee hysteria at a fever pitch, it's inescapable these days. Miller, Lambert and I took the stage in the era before the @scrippsbee Twitter feed blasted a blow-by-blow account of the early rounds, spectator seats went for $20 to $40 a pop and the ESPN broadcast became appointment viewing for people not directly related to the wee, trembling geeks onstage. The gut-gnarling stress of attempting to piece together words plucked from a seemingly alien tongue (spellers faced "leucoryx" "barukhzy" and "hoomalimali" just Wednesday) is more than most reasonable adults could bear. Having to do so onstage, at the apex of one's awkward phase, in front of a battery of news cameras and reporters feels like a twisted sociological experiment -- and it leaves a scar. In 2012, 6-year-old Lori Anne Madison, the youngest speller on record with the Scripps National Spelling Bee, told the Washington Post that she didn't feel undue pressure during Bee competition. Perhaps she overcame her awkward phase in utero and will be spared such indignity in her inevitable future appearances on the Bee stage. Lucky her. My job often requires speaking unscripted on live television at a moment's notice or addressing crowds of a hundred people who've forked over cash in part to hear me yammer. That's a skip through a sun-dappled meadow compared with my brief, ignominious Bee foray. While I wasn't especially bent on winning for my own sake, I was keenly aware that my family, school, hometown and the local sponsoring newspaper had invested an awful lot of time, cash and care into my trip to Washington, and I did not want to fail them. I did fail, and for that, I was deeply ashamed. READ: National contest isn't bee-all and end-all In 1998, Justin Warner (fatal word: "tarpaulin") empathized as his fellow competitors folded. "Watching kids put so much emotion in to what is essentially a game really affected my personal growth," said the proprietor of Brooklyn, New York's much-lauded Do or Dine restaurant and a current contestant on "The Next Food Network Star." "There were plenty of kids that were there to have a good time and rock out some serious spelling, but there were also plenty that seemed like they were going to be eliminated from society as opposed to a game. Hanging out in the 'Kiss and Cry' room after being eliminated was so sad to me, not because I was eliminated early but because there were so many crying kids!" That fabled place, officially labeled the "Comfort Room," is no longer a cookie-and-lemonade-laden refuge for tearstained spellers. Not because the need was lessened and the current crop of competitors are automatons; rather, Scripps spokeswoman (and Bee vet) Kara Hadge says, "We just ran out of room." After the dreaded bell tolls, the child -- weeping, shocked, relieved or simply numb -- is escorted from the stage and handed off to a parent, who has probably been absorbing the shock of every syllable. "Whatever I was suffering onstage, my family -- Mom in particular -- went through it a hundredfold in their seats," Miller said. "But they helped give me perspective. When I left the stage, I was never made to feel that I had blown it. It was just, 'Hey, tough break; we're proud of you; ready for some ice cream?' " Warner used the trip to the nation's capital to indulge in his first fine dining experience, exposure to an industry that would become his life's work. "When I went to the national level, I knew I'd be up against kids who believed that this was their only shot towards excellence, fame and fortune," he said. "I was more excited about getting a meal at Michel Richard's Citronelle. I had squab for the first time." READ: Sweet 'spell' of success No one at the Bee is there by accident. While this might be someone's first outing in the orthographic Super Bowl, it takes many rounds -- from school bees to local to regional -- to qualify for the National Spelling Bee. Even Warner, who says he didn't put much effort into his studies, went through practice sessions with his father -- and later realized he'd made the exact flub that sealed his fate at the Bee. Other spellers -- weaned on academic combat like Olympics of the Mind, speech competitions and Mathletics -- arrived in D.C., eschewed all social activities and hunkered down in their rooms for a final training sprint. For most, that was for naught, but for Stephanie Petit, winner of the 1987 Bee, it paid off with the correct spelling of "staphylococci." The San Francisco-based attorney admits, "I opted out of most of the fun activities. I am of two minds about this. Some part of me definitely wishes I had taken the time to acquaint myself better with the other spellers. But of course, a part of me says it's a good thing I did as I did, since perhaps that's what worked." Despite Petit's victory, some residual emotion comes to the fore during Bee season. "It brings me back, and I get a little bit nervous again, as when I was in the competition. Maybe that's why I don't follow the actual competition in progress so much. I always read about the results, the winning word, the finalists, the composition of the contestants, and all of that always makes me happy." She also credits her Bee stint with aiding in her professional development, giving her nerves steady enough to endure high-pressure situations. Jon Pennington, who rocketed past both Miller and me to become the 1986 victor on the word "odontalgia," came to the Bee possessed of a tremendous passion for spelling and spelling bees -- as well as a lower-than-average fear of public speaking -- and his mother's sunglasses. The bright lights of the cameras bothered his eyes, and a friend back home mistook his victory picture for one of Corazon Aquino, who was in the news for having just overthrown the Philippine government of Ferdinand Marcos. Pennington says he caught a private plane to New York to appear on "Good Morning America" and then returned to Washington to meet President Reagan in the White House Rose Garden. He weathered the exposure well. "My main emotional reaction is pride," he said. "The kids competing in the Spelling Bee today are competing at such a higher level than what I remember from 25 years ago. If anything, I'm glad that there's been a change in our culture, where people are willing to accept the label of 'nerdy' and 'dorky,' because of their pride in their intellectual interests and accomplishments." Pennington, who recently completed an MBA program at the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota, still watches the Bee. Although he admits he no longer has the accuracy rate he used to, he says he still spells a few words right in the later rounds sometimes and thinks to himself, "I still got it." As for me, for years, I was able to avoid the very existence of the Bee. That is, until that fateful day in 2001, when I walked into a Bee-induced panic attack. I still can't get anywhere near the coverage without danger of near-retroperistalsis, but I have (mostly) forgiven myself for the loss. I came, I dorked, I fumbled, I failed, but at least I was there. And as Miller says, "Fate either smiles or blows you a raspberry. No matter how embarrassing the loss, almost no one will remember it in a year's time. And I learned that the fuller your life is, the less the individual stumbles bother you." Were you a bee kid? Share your memories in the comments, on Twitter @CNNschools or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/living/turn-enemy-into-friend-glamour-relate/index.html	living	How to turn any enemy into a friend - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 04:54:34 EDT 2014	(Glamour.com) -- Let's be honest: There are just certain people we love to hate -- our bitchy boss, our monster-in-law, our boyfriend's unfairly fit former flame. But rather than harbor ill will, what if you could flip those relationships from bad to better? It's possible, and we're here to tell you how. Glamour.com: 10 Wardrobe Essentials Every Woman Should Own Enemy #1: Your boss Whether she shames you in group meetings or denies your vacation requests, you've got a nagging feeling your superior finds you inferior. The first step toward friendship, experts say, is to suppress your impulse to smack-talk. "You've probably been venting to whomever will listen to you about this boss for so long that you don't realize how much of your life you expend on negativity," says April Masini, relationship expert and author of "Think & Date Like a Man." Instead, "start doing nice things, as if there's a Secret Santa competition happening and you've pulled your boss' name from the hat. Bring coffee, offer to read over something for her, stay late at work or ask her if she'd like to have lunch." Glamour.com: Kate Middleton's New Zealand and Australia Tour Outfits Enemy #2: Your mother-in-law She may have raised the man of your dreams, but you seriously wonder how they could possibly share the same DNA. If you have to endure yet another hellish flight to the middle of nowhere to spend the holidays eating her terrible food, you'll scream. Your move: Start new family traditions -- but include her in them. "For example, if Thanksgiving has always been held at her home and you'd like to host this year, talk to your husband first and your mother-in-law second," says Masini. Getting him on the same page as you beforehand is essential. Next, "Tell her what you're considering and ask her to think about it for a week or two," says Masni. Chances are, if you're up front about the request, you include her in the plans, you give her time to think and she sees that your husband is on your team, she'll come around. Glamour.com: 10 Beauty Tricks That Make Guys Melt Enemy #3: Your ex Even though you've split, he's still around. He shares your friends, the neighborhood bar or even the same apartment. If you find yourself tense and testy around him (or on the receiving end of such treatment) take a deep breath and try this instead: "Compliment him when you can, without sending the wrong message," Masini says. "You can tell him that you really liked a particular thing about him -- the way he was so good with your friends' kids, or the respectful way he treated his parents. He may have a preconceived template for treating an ex [bashing you = distancing himself from you], but if you don't play along and show him a better way, you may just win him over." Glamour.com: 50 Wedding Dresses That Will Make Your Heart Skip a Beat Enemy #4: Your boyfriend's ex (you know, the one who just won't go away) "In a perfect world, your current flame's ex would move to Alaska," says psychologist Lauren Napolitano. Amen to that! But, alas, we don't live in a perfect world. And she doesn't live in Alaska. The key to a friendly relationship with her is an open conversation with him. "If he has a balanced and appropriately detached relationship with her, you'll likely feel warmly toward her," says Napolitano. In that case, it's good to be friendly when you see her in a group setting. "If, on the other hand, your flame struggles with flirting with her, you may grow hostile toward her," Napolitano says. In this case, you're right to have some comments about the situation (but not right to be hostile!) Openly -- and calmly -- discuss any concerns you have, and establish expected boundaries right at the beginning of your relationship. He'll either assuage your concerns, or continue his flirtatious behavior. Either way, you'll have your answer. Glamour.com: 25 Celebrity Hairstyles That Will Make You Want Bangs Enemy #5: Your (un-neighborly) neighbor You wouldn't borrow sugar from this guy if he had the last stash on earth. Maybe he's the guy who plays loud music 24/7, or maybe he's the guy who bangs on the wall even when your TV volume is barely audible even to you. Either way, explains Napolitano, "When someone criticizes your gardening, your noise level or even your mailbox, you become annoyed with this person. Some neighbors just can't help but express their opinions about everything, and these are the neighbors for which the adage 'good fences make good neighbors' was born." What to do: Acknowledge your differences -- then force yourself to offer appreciation for something he does, even if it's not how you'd do it. "For example, if you disagree on how tidy to keep a front lawn, tell your neighbor that you really appreciate how tidy he keeps things, and that when your work load lets up, you'll have more time to emulate his style," says Masini. Glamour.com: 50 Swimsuits That Make You Look 10 Pounds Thinner Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  Reprinted with permission of Conde Nast. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/living/100-deadliest-days-for-teen-drivers-parents/index.html	living	Memorial Day starts the 100 deadliest days for teen drivers - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 04:57:27 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- Here's a sobering statistic for the unofficial start of summer, when we gear up for picnics, barbecues and our kids having more free time on their hands: Memorial Day kicks off what's known as 100 deadliest days for teen drivers. From Memorial Day through Labor Day in 2012, nearly 1,000 people were killed in crashes involving teen drivers, and more than 550 of those killed were teens, according to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration data analyzed by the nonprofit National Safety Council. Some of the reasons for the spike make sense. Teens are driving more during the summer and it might be more recreational than purposeful, the National Safety Council reports. For instance, instead of driving back and forth to school, they might be driving to the beach, lake or river, and heading down roads they haven't driven before. But one of the biggest reasons for the summer risk increase is that teens might be driving more frequently with more of their friends. "We have always known that passengers were a big risk for teens, but what we're really finding out now is passengers may be one of the most important risks for teens, even more so than things like texting," said John Ulczycki, the National Safety Council's vice president of strategic initiatives. READ: Steering teen drivers out of harm's way  Think about it this way, Ulczycki said: Passengers are a distraction the entire time a teen is driving, whereas the distraction from texting is probably limited to the seconds or minutes they're looking at screens instead of the road. Passengers increase the risk of a teen driver having a fatal crash by at least 44%, according to the National Safety Council. "It's tragic that parents don't really appreciate the risks of passengers," said Ulczycki, who said parents may understand the risks of texting or cell phone use, but aren't as aware of the dangers of a new driver hitting the road with friends in the car. A majority of states have laws on the books regarding the number of passengers allowed for new drivers. Some states don't allow any for the first six months or year after getting a license; some allow one passenger. ''If you have a kid who had their license for less than one year, you have to think very, very carefully about the conditions or the situations in which you allow them to carry any passengers. You really do," Ulczycki said. CNN iReport: Parents of teens share driving tips  Ulczycki, a father of six in Wilmette, Illinois, didn't allow his children to drive with passengers for the first year of their official driving lives. "It was a real bone of contention," he said. "They weren't happy about it, but they all survived." A recent study found that loud conversations and horseplay between passengers were more likely than technology to result in a dangerous incident involving teen drivers. The study by the University of North Carolina Highway Safety Research Center tracked 52 high-school age drivers in North Carolina who agreed to have cameras installed in their cars. The study appeared in the Journal of Adolescent Health this spring. When there was loud conversation in the car, teen drivers were six times more likely to need to take actions like making an evasive maneuver to avoid a crash. When there was horseplay in the vehicle, they were three times more likely to get into a similarly serious episode, according to the study. "Forty-three states currently restrict newly licensed drivers from having more than one young passenger in their vehicle," Robert Foss, senior research scientist at the Highway Safety Research Center, and director of the Center for the Study of Young Drivers, said in a news release. "The results of this study illustrate the importance of such restrictions, which increase the safety of drivers, their passengers and others on the road by reducing the potential chaos that novice drivers experience." READ: What sways teens not to drink, drive? Stories, not stats Earlier this year, we traveled to Roxbury, New Jersey, to talk with Barb Dunn, her husband and her 16-year-old son Daniel about how they were trying to teach Daniel about safety as he learns to drive. Daniel will get his license on June 3. When I recently got back in touch with Dunn about the dangers of the summer months, her anxiety went up. "My first reaction is fear. Then sadness," Dunn said via e-mail. "I just heard a similar statistic about prom night being a very dangerous time. ... I think we have to take the time to to talk to our children and remind them of the risks and talk about how to minimize them." Ulczycki of the National Safety Council said the best advice for parents is to understand the risks about passengers and drive with them so they can get accustomed to having people in the car. He also suggest parents consider the risks of driving at night. "It's not the time of night. It's how dark it is. That's really the risk here, and I think too many parents think of night driving as a social curfew. 'Well, I'll let my kid stay out until 11 p.m. so he's fine,' " Ulczycki said. "It has nothing to do with that. It has to do with the risk of driving after dark." READ: Zero tolerance makes zero sense: Teen punished for helping drunk friend Annette DiCola Lanteri, a mom of two in Bayport, Long Island, has two girls who are still a few years away from driving age. The best thing parents can do, she said on Facebook, is to teach teen drivers the best we can. "Give them the most knowledge we can so that they can adequately protect themselves, then pray," DiCola Lanteri said. "There are so many variables and we only have so much control." What do you think is the best way to keep teen drivers safe this summer? Share your thoughts in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook. For more information on how to keep your teen drivers safe, go to the National Safety Council's DriveitHOME.org.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/business/success-mothers-dos-santos/index.html	iBUSINESS	Mothers reveal all: The secrets to raising a successful child - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 06:12:09 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Nina dos Santos is a news anchor and correspondent based in London. She is the host of CNN International's new business show, The Business View, which airs weekdays at 12pm CET. Follow her on Twitter and tell us, using the hashtag #cnnbusinessview, what did your mother teach you? (CNN) -- Perched on a sofa in her West London apartment, Eve Branson recounts early memories of her son Richard. Disciplining him, it seems, was delicate business. "He was like a ball of fire as a little boy," the 90-year-old told me. "Like a thoroughbred. You didn't want to pull the reins too hard and spoil him, spoil his adventures and his madness but you had to pull a little bit." His single-mindedness began to reveal itself when he was just three or four, she recalls. Branson ran off and hid at a local farmer's house after a strong reprimand. "Eventually someone rang to say 'We've got a little blue-eyed boy here? Does he belong to you?' Gosh was I relieved." Now, her son has a knighthood, is worth more than $5 billion according to Forbes and is one of the world's most able -- if eccentric -- entrepreneurs. But what was the secret to such success? Does tough love breed success or is support and encouragement key to raising tomorrow's tycoons? I set out to answer these questions in a series of interviews with the mothers of sports stars, tech pioneers and rockers and discovered they had many traits in common. Branson, it seems, was not the only budding businessman with a mind of his own. Maye Musk, mum of PayPal magnate Elon, has a similar story. The South African model and nutritionist laughs nervously as she recalls the time she left a young Elon Musk behind at home for misbehaving while taking her other children to visit their cousins. It was a 20 minute drive away or four hours on foot, she says. Just as she was leaving Musk says her son turned up out of nowhere. "I saw this tiny little boy, just past toddler stage, coming down the sidewalk. It was Elon. He'd walked there! I was horrified." Now aged 42, her son has revolutionized the world of e-commerce and electric vehicles through his companies Paypal and Tesla. And just like Branson, who soon aims to make passenger space travel a possibility, Musk is taking on the final frontier: with a contract from NASA for his firm Space X to transport orbital cargo. Maye says her each launch leaves her "anxious and shaking and sick," with relief finally coming with success. It's a reaction Judy Murray can sympathize with. Murray has raised two successful children, both of whom hold Wimbledon titles. Older son Jamie is a doubles champion while her youngest is the singles title holder Andy. When Andy Murray clinched the Wimbledon title last year, the first Briton to do so in 77 years, his mother couldn't look. "I buried my face because I knew the cameras would be on me." Murray, herself an accomplished tennis player and coach, introduced her sons to the sport as a way of keeping them busy, but never expected her family name to make the sport's hall of fame. "As eight and nine year olds they were exceptionally good tennis players...but when I saw Andy holding the trophy, I just thought "I can't believe it," she says. Judy Murray has been accused of being pushy but says people "make assumptions because they don't know me. "I've heard Andy and Jamie being asked that before and they say 'my mum never pushed us.' That's why they are still doing what they are doing, because they love what they are doing." Another famous son inspired by his parent's passion is Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web. The child of two computer programmers and maths aficionados, Berners-Lee grew up in a household of calculus before bedtime. His 90-year-old mother Mary-Lee shows me a sketch drawn by a family friend on holiday one year depicting a young Tim and three siblings in animated conversation; the word "Noise" scribbled above their heads. "I used to think my children were terribly well behaved but when I look back at this I realize it wasn't always so," she says. She recalls evenings around the dinner table, when the family would try and solve maths problems. If his parents were unable to crack it, Tim Berners-Lee would step in, she told me. "It was all terribly good fun." But good mothers don't always choose the conventional path: Jo Wood, who raised her three kids while on tour with the Rolling Stones, felt it important to educate them on life as a rocker's offspring. Describing the moment she offered her son and daughter cocaine and cannabis, respectively, Jo says she felt "like a lioness showing her cubs the world and what was out there." Did that make her a bad mother? "Luckily it didn't backfire," she says. Now a grandmother, Wood has fond memories of the days she spent on the road with her family and the Stones. "I used to love it. We'd just pack up and it was like we were all going on an adventure." And in many ways Wood was a mother figure to the whole band. "I loved Charlie for his wonderful cold sense of humor, and of course I loved Ronnie, Keith has a special place in my heart and Mick, you never know where you stand with him. One minute he can be fabulous and then next he'll ignore you." Wood credits her kids, art dealer Jaimie, singer Leah and youngest son Tyrone, with helping her through the breakdown of her marriage. She is now runs her own beauty brand and says "my kids kept me sane through all of my hard times," she says. "They'd call me up and make sure I wasn't alone. They'd take me clubbing. And just like the other famous mothers I met she concludes: "My kids are great. I know I wouldn't be the same without them." More from Nina dos Santos: The European Union needs a new vision  Read more: How to rebuild trans-Atlantic ties Additional reporting by James Frater and Hazel Pfeifer 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/16/living/sat-test-changes/index.html	living	College Board unveils preview of sample SAT questions - CNN.com	2014/04/16	Wednesday Apr 16 07:53:08 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The days of memorizing arcane, recondite vocabulary words might be ending for high school students who will take a redesigned SAT in two years. An emphasis on "relevant," commonly used words is one of many changes the College Board unveiled Wednesday in an attempt to make the 88-year-old exam "more open and clear than any in our history." With fewer questions overall, the new test aims to assess students' analytical skills and better help them prepare for college. "Recent SAT results tell a troubling story about students' readiness for and likelihood for success in their postsecondary endeavors," the College Board said. "Far too few students are ready to succeed in the kinds of education and training that they will need to participate effectively in an increasingly competitive economy." The College Board released 211 pages of detailed test specifications, including sample questions to show how the test is changing. Here's a look at some examples across all sections: The new test will have fewer questions overall that are scored differently:  Multiple-choice questions will contain four answers instead of five. Instead of a point for each correct answer and a deduction for an incorrect answer, the new test will use "rights-only scoring," which means a point for a correct answer, but no deduction for wrong answers. Blank responses will have no impact on scores. In a return to previous versions, the test will be scored on a scale from 400 to 1600 instead of the current scale of 600 to 2400. With 153 questions -- 52 in reading, 44 in writing and language and 57 in math -- the new test will have fewer questions than the current version's 171 questions. But, there will be no more mandatory essay, leading to the next big change. The written essay will be optional and scored separately from reading, writing and math: It's optional in the sense that individual postsecondary institutions will determine whether they will require it for admission. Those who take it will have twice as much time -- 50 minutes -- to complete it. Instead of asking students to take a position on a presented issue, the new version aims to evaluate reading, writing and analytical skills by asking students to produce a written analysis of a provided source text. For example, the College Board documents provide a passage and asked students to write an essay explaining how the author "builds an argument to persuade his audience" by looking for "evidence, such as facts or examples, to support claims," or stylistic elements, "such as word choice" to add power to the ideas expressed in the passage. No more $5 words! "Relevant words" are in: Instead of requiring students to memorize words they might never use in real life, questions in the new test will focus on understanding the meaning of "relevant" or commonly used words from the context in which they appear, and "how word choice shapes meaning, tone, and impact." Here's an example: "The coming decades will likely see more intense clustering of jobs, innovation, and productivity in a smaller number of bigger cities and city-regions. Some regions could end up bloated beyond the capacity of their infrastructure, while others struggle, their promise stymied by inadequate human or other resources." As used in line 55, "intense" most nearly means A) emotional B) concentrated C) brilliant D) determined The test will "focus on math that matters most -- algebra: What matters most, according to the College Board, is algebra, data analysis and what it calls "passport to advanced math," which includes quadratic and higher-order equations, geometry and trigonometry. Students will have 80 minutes -- 10 minutes longer than the current version -- to answer 57 math questions. Most will be multiple-choice but some will require students to provide answers. And, unlike the current version, students will be required to put away their calculators for 25 minutes. Students will have to analyze texts based on the strength of the writer's arguments Students will be asked to demonstrate their ability to interpret and synthesize the underlying ideas of a variety of sources, from informational graphics and political speeches to fiction novels and scholarly texts. One sample question asks students to read a political speech and determine which lines support the overall argument.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/27/living/student-money-saving-typeface-garamond-schools/index.html	living	Teen to government: Change your typeface, save millions - CNN.com	2014/03/27	Thursday Mar 27 11:29:54 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- An e. You can write it with one fluid swoop of a pen or one tap of the keyboard. The most commonly used letter in the English dictionary. Simple, right? Now imagine it printed out millions of times on thousands of forms and documents. Then think of how much ink would be needed. OK, so that may have been a first for you, but it came naturally to 14-year-old Suvir Mirchandani when he was trying to think of ways to cut waste and save money at his Pittsburgh-area middle school. It all started as a science fair project. As a neophyte sixth-grader at Dorseyville Middle School, Suvir noticed he was getting a lot more handouts than he did in elementary school. Interested in applying computer science to promote environmental sustainability, Suvir decided he was going to figure out if there was a better way to minimize the constant flurry of paper and ink. Reducing paper use through recycling and dual-sided printing had been talked about before as a way to save money and conserve resources, but there was less attention paid to the ink for which the paper served as a canvas for history and algebra handouts. "Ink is two times more expensive than French perfume by volume," Suvir says with a chuckle. He's right: Chanel No. 5 perfume costs $38 per ounce, while the equivalent amount of Hewlett-Packard printer ink can cost up to $75. So Suvir decided to focus his project on finding ways to cut down on the costly liquid. Collecting random samples of teachers' handouts, Suvir concentrated on the most commonly used characters (e, t, a, o and r). First, he charted how often each character was used in four different typefaces: Garamond, Times New Roman, Century Gothic and Comic Sans. Then he measured how much ink was used for each letter, using a commercial tool called APFill Ink Coverage Software. Next he enlarged the letters, printed them and cut them out on cardstock paper to weigh them to verify his findings. He did three trials for each letter, graphing the ink usage for each font. From this analysis, Suvir figured out that by using Garamond with its thinner strokes, his school district could reduce its ink consumption by 24%, and in turn save as much as $21,000 annually. Encouraged by his teacher, Suvir looked to publish his findings and stumbled on the Journal for Emerging Investigators (JEI), a publication founded by a group of Harvard grad students in 2011 that provides a forum for the work of middle school and high school students. It has the same standards as academic journals, and each submission is reviewed by grad students and academics. Sarah Fankhauser, one of JEI's founders, says that of the nearly 200 submissions they have received since 2011, Suvir's project was a real standout: "We were so impressed. We really could really see the real-world application in Suvir's paper." Fankhauser said Suvir's findings were so clear, simple and well thought-out, it had the peer reviewers at JEI asking, "How much potential savings is really out there?" For the answer, JEI challenged Suvir to apply his project to a larger scale: the federal government. With an annual printing expenditure of $1.8 billion, the government was a much more challenging task than his school science project. Suvir repeated his tests on five sample pages from documents on the Government Printing Office website and got similar results -- change the font, save money. Will government printers embrace a change?   Using the General Services Administration's estimated annual cost of ink -- $467 million -- Suvir concluded that if the federal government used Garamond exclusively it could save nearly 30% -- or $136 million per year. An additional $234 million could be saved annually if state governments also jumped on board, he reported. Gary Somerset, media and public relations manager at the Government Printing Office, describes Suvir's work as "remarkable." But he was noncommittal on whether the GPO would introduce changes to typeface, saying the GPO's efforts to become more environmentally sustainable were focused on shifting content to the Web. "In 1994, we were producing 20,000 copies a day of both the Federal Register and Congressional Record. Twenty years later, we produce roughly 2,500 print copies a day," he said. On top of this, the Congressional Register is printed on recycled paper, which GPO has been doing for five or six years, Somerset says. One federal initiative that focuses on minimizing ink-usage is called "Printwise." Implemented 18 months ago by the General Services Administration, it teaches government offices how to default their computer settings to Times New Roman, Garamond and Century Gothic to minimize printing waste. According to GSA's press secretary Dan Cruz, they hope this type of initiative could ultimately save the federal government up to $30 million annually. Suvir appreciates the government's efforts, but he sees his project as a means of making an even bigger impact nationwide. "Consumers are still printing at home, they can make this change too," he says. Holding out hope At 14, Suvir understands how difficult such a project might be to implement -- "I recognize it's difficult to change someone's behavior. That's the most difficult part." But he holds out hope: "I definitely would love to see some actual changes and I'd be happy to go as far as possible to make that change possible." With decades ahead to lend a hand, Suvir and other young men and women like him may even be able to untangle some of the knotty political and technical issues that beset Washington, corporate suites and the world at large. Know a young entrepreneur? 'Godfather' of Helvetica font dies at 84  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/08/14/living/schools-fashion-suspension/index.html	living	When school clothes lead to suspension - CNN.com	2013/08/14	Wednesday Aug 14 11:09:34 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- It begins again with every new school year: A student heads to class with a certain T-shirt, a wild hairdo or a new pair of shorts and soon, the phone rings. Principal G. A. Buie, from Eudora High School in Eudora, Kansas, thinks a lot of parents know what's coming. "I can't tell you how many times I have called a parent and said, 'Hey, I just want to let you know that I've talked to your son or daughter today and their clothing is inappropriate' for one reason or the other, and the parent says, 'Well I told them when they left the house they were gonna get in trouble,' " Buie said. School dress codes are nothing new, but from school to school, district to district, state to state, the guidelines are different, and changing. It seems that students and parents -- no matter how well meaning -- challenge the rulebooks time and again. A Colorado third-grader was suspended after shaving her head to show support for a friend battling cancer, because she'd violated her school's dress code banning shaved heads. Her parents expected the school to make an exception for such a brave display of sympathy. In 2010, schools around the country banned bracelets that read "I heart boobies." The bracelets were made by nonprofit Keep a Breast Foundation as a light-hearted way to increase breast cancer awareness among young people. In Easton, Pennsylvania, two middle school students were suspended for wearing them, the ACLU of Pennsylvania said, because the school said they could be interpreted as lewd. In July 2013, a federal appeals court said a Pennsylvania school district couldn't enforce its ban on the bracelets -- they're protected speech because they show support for a national breast-cancer awareness campaign, and don't disrupt school activities. No state legislatures or education departments mandate uniforms or specific dress codes, according to the Education Commission of the States, an organization that provides nonpartisan information about education policy for state leaders. Still, 21 states and the District of Columbia have passed policies that authorize districts or schools to require uniforms and other laws influence dress codes. Share your story: How do you personalize your school uniform? In 2011, Arkansas passed a law that requires districts to prohibit clothes that expose underwear, buttocks or female students' breasts. A California law requires schools allow students to wear hats while outdoors during the school day. Several states require districts to allow parents and staff to weigh in on what school uniforms should be. "Student appearance, the courts said, can be regulated if it is vulgar, indecent, obscene, insulting or if it carries a message that encourages inappropriate behavior," according to the Education Commission of the States. School policies are typically regulated by community standards, said Buie, the president-elect of the National Association of Secondary School Principals. Policies that some might see as overly conservative, or even antiquated, can stay on the books for a long time. The old rules don't always work when large school systems grow, combining multiple communities into one district, Buie said, or as families move around, bringing new ideas about what's normal or appropriate. In some cases, the rules are updated to suit changing norms. 'It wasn't offensive' Last year, 5-year-old Cooper Barton was told to turn his University of Michigan T-shirt inside-out because it violated school rules. The dress code in Oklahoma City's public schools said students may only wear shirts from Oklahoma colleges and universities. The 2005 policy was put into place to deter gang activity. "He was a little embarrassed," his mother, Shannon Barton, told CNN affiliate KWTV. "It wasn't offensive. You know, he's 5." The Oklahoma City school board changed its dress code as a result of the Barton's complaints, KWTV reported, and the Barton family was gifted with tickets to a Michigan football game. READ: Why some parents dread back-to-school shopping In almost any school, there are a few things that are likely to guarantee a student a trip to the principal's office, Buie said. Most schools ban clothes that advertise drugs and alcohol, Buie said. Shirts bearing an Einstein anti-war quote and the NRA logo and a machine gun have gotten students in trouble in recent years. But often times, it's not the crazy shirt, outrageous hairdo or visible tattoo that gets a student in trouble, Buie said. Rather, it's that they don't change the behavior they've been asked to correct. "I've never been around a school that didn't give a student the opportunity to put on a shirt that's appropriate," he said. An attitude of defiance and "What are they going to do to me, anyway?" is what leads to trouble. "They know the policies, they know the rules, but they choose to do it anyway," Buie said. 'A singular goal -- to create a safe environment' The American Civil Liberties Union says the Supreme Court has affirmed students' rights to express their opinions, as long as they don't "materially and substantially" disrupt classes or other school activities. But it warns on its website that it won't always win a dress code debate: "If you think your school's dress codes and hair codes are unfair and you want to challenge them, be aware that a court probably won't overturn the codes unless the judge finds that they're really unreasonable, or that they're discriminatory." Many school districts say dress codes are a matter of order and safety -- and nobody is exempt. In 2011 in Fremont, Nebraska, sixth-grader Elizabeth Carey was told she couldn't wear her rosary to school because it violated the school's dress code. She said it was an expression of her faith. Steve Sexton, Fremont's superintendent of schools, said local gangs were using rosaries as a symbol of gang affiliation. "There are those who want to make this an issue about religion when it's about a singular goal -- to create a safe environment for our students," Sexton told CNN affiliate KETV. Her parents said they were floored. Elizabeth said she wouldn't stop wearing the cross in necklaces or on her clothes. Wouldn't any parent be upset about their child being punished for wearing a rosary, or dying his hair pink in support of breast cancer research? Buie said there are plenty of times when a call home to parents results in the recitation of the First Amendment. It's a relatively new challenge for educators, he said. "Now we have parents that are more likely to support and defend their children as being the ones that are correct," he said. "If we've done something wrong, (parents) are going to come to us and let us know that we need to change or look at doing something differently --15, 20 years ago, that wasn't the case." Explaining the dress code and why a child was told to change, leave school or even face suspension doesn't stop parents from being offended when their kids are punished, Buie said, or from glaring when he sees them at the grocery store. While students have the right to free speech, it's the school's job to teach children that they can't infringe on someone else's rights, he said. "Those are things that are taught in schools," he said, "accepting differences." What styles would lead to discipline from your school? Do you know the dress code? Share your thoughts in the comments or on Twitter @CNNschools or on Facebook at CNN Living. CNN's Jamie Gumbrecht contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/15/living/childrens-choice-book-awards-2014/index.html	living	Children's and Teen Choice Book Awards winners announced - CNN.com	2014/05/15	Thursday May 15 07:16:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The kids have spoken. Winners of the Children's and Teen Choice Book Awards were announced Wednesday night at the seventh Children's Book Week Gala in New York, part of the the 95th Children's Book Week. Rush Limbaugh won author of the year for "Rush Revere and the Brave Pilgrims: Time-Travel Adventures with Exceptional Americans," while Grace Lee won illustrator of the year for "Sofia the First: The Floating Palace." These are the only awards chosen by children and teens in support of their favorite books, according to the Children's Book Council. Each year, about 13,000 children across the United States read newly published children and young adult books within their classes through the International Reading Association, in partnership with the Children's Book Council. Kids voted for their favorites online with the help of their parents and teachers, or educators submitted group ballots after polling their students. The teen finalists were chosen through a joint program with Teenreads.com, part of The Book Report Network. The top author and illustrator finalists were determined by the bestseller lists. Voters were also allowed to write in finalists that weren't listed. The Children's Book Council's vetting process ensures that voting is done by children and teens, or submitted from classroom ballot boxes, they said. "The idea was born out of the understanding that when kids are given a voice and agency in their reading choices, they tend to be a lot more excited about reading," said Nicole Deming of the Children's Book Council. "It's so important to get those gateway titles to them that will lead them to a lifelong investment in the written word." Founded by the Children's Book Council and in support of the nonprofit Every Child a Reader, the event was hosted by Kate DiCamillo, author of "Flora and Ulysses: The Illuminated Adventures" and National Ambassador for Young People's Literature. Former "Reading Rainbow" host LeVar Burton was awarded with the Impact Award for his efforts to instill "a lifelong love of reading in children." Here's the list of winners: Book of the Year, kindergarten through second grade Winner: "The Day the Crayons Quit" by Drew Daywalt, illustrated by Oliver Jeffers Finalists: "Alphabet Trucks" by Samantha R. Vamos, illustrated by Ryan O'Rourke "Chamelia and the New Kid in Class" by Ethan Long "Mustache Baby" by Bridget Heos, illustrated by Joy Ang "Bear and Bee" by Sergio Ruzzier Book of the Year, third through fourth grade Winner: "Bugs in My Hair!" by David Shannon Finalists: "Bean Dog and Nugget: The Ball" by Charise Mericle Harper "Cougar: A Cat With Many Names" by Stephen Person "The Matchbox Diary" by Paul Fleischman, illustrated by Bagram Ibatoulline "Pancho Rabbit and the Coyote: A Migrant's Tale" by Duncan Tonatiuh Book of the Year, fifth through sixth grade Winner: "National Geographic Kids Myths Busted!" by Emily Krieger, illustrated by Tom Nick Cocotos Finalists: "Hokey Pokey" by Jerry Spinelli "Prince Puggly of Spud" by Robert Paul Weston "Lawless: Book 1" by Jeffrey Salane "Battling Boy" by Paul Pope Book of the Year, teens Winner: "Allegiant" by Veronica Roth Finalists: "Clockwork Princess" by Cassandra Clare "Eleanor & Park" by Rainbow Rowell "Smoke" by Ellen Hopkins "The 5th Wave" by Rick Yancey Illustrator of the Year Winner: Grace Lee, "Sofia the First: The Floating Palace" Finalists: Victoria Kann, "Emeraldalicious" Anna Dewdney, "Llama Llama and the Bully Goat" James Dean, "Pete the Cat: The Wheels on the Bus" Oliver Jeffers, "The Day the Crayons Quit" Author of the Year Winner: Rush Limbaugh, "Rush Revere and the Brave Pilgrims: Time-Travel Adventures with Exceptional Americans" Finalists: Veronica Roth, "Allegiant" Rachel Renee Russell, "Dork Diaries 6: Tales From A Not-So-Happy Heartbreaker" Rick Riordan, "The House of Hades" Jeff Kinney, "Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Hard Luck" What are the most popular books among kids and teens in your household or classroom? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/29/living/harper-lee-mockingbird-digital-book/index.html	living	Harper Lee OKs e-book version of 'To Kill a Mockingbird' - CNN.com	2014/04/29	Tuesday Apr 29 01:40:00 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Reclusive author Harper Lee has agreed to allow "To Kill a Mockingbird" to be released electronically, ending what had until now been a glaring holdout in the digital library of literary masterpieces. Lee announced her decision Monday -- her 88th birthday -- in a statement released by her publisher HarperCollins. "I'm still old-fashioned. I love dusty old books and libraries," Lee said. "This is Mockingbird for a new generation." Nelle Harper Lee hasn't published a work in more than a half-century. She's made headlines though in steadfastly fighting to keep the rights to her intellectual property protected. In 2013, the Alabama native sued her hometown of Monroe County Heritage Museum for trademark infringement, saying it was illegally using her fame for its own gain. "Historical facts belong to the world," the suit argued "but fiction and trademarks are protected by law." Lee also once sued a former literary agent for being "duped" into signing over the rights to her novel. Inspiring millions "To Kill a Mockingbird" is told through the eyes of Scout, the daughter of a lawyer in Maycomb, Alabama. It deals with a local attorney's relationship with his children and his community as he defends an African-American man accused of raping a white woman in the 1930s Jim Crow era. Its themes of racial injustice and waning innocence, grounded in characters possessing courage and tolerance, have inspired millions of readers. The 1960 novel -- the only one Lee wrote -- won a Pulitzer Prize and was made into an Academy Award-winning movie. According to HaperCollins, the novel has sold more than 30 million copies in English worldwide. It's been translated into more than 40 languages, and still sells more than 1 million copies every year. Social buzz If social media buzz is any indication, there's considerable excitement about this classic novel coming into the 21st century. "Thank you Harper Lee! To Kill a Mockingbird coming to a kindle near you in July! A present for us on her birthday!" wrote Amy Feld in a Facebook post. "Hot damn! Harper Lee okays an ebook of THE classic," wrote another, Kathy Whitlock. The e-book and digital audio will be released on July 8, the date of the 54th anniversary of the book's original publication. CNN's Bill Mears contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/06/living/amazon-100-best-books/index.html	living	Amazon 100 books to read in a lifetime - CNN.com	2014/02/06	Thursday Feb 6 04:36:47 EST 2014	(CNN) -- Amazon released its newly curated list of 100 Books to Read in a Lifetime on Tuesday. Books on the list include Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice" (1813), F. Scott Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby" (1925) and Kate Atkinson's "Life After Life" (2013). The list spans 200 years of literature, along with a wide range of genres and intended audiences; authors include David Sedaris, Salman Rushdie, J.D. Salinger, Michael Pollan and Shel Silverstein. Sara Nelson, editorial director of print and Kindle books at Amazon.com, said the list was created through taxing months of deliberation among her team, though no mathematical algorithms were used. "One of our tasks was to have books that don't feel like homework: 'eat your vegetables' books," Nelson said. "There was nothing in there except 'I loved this book when I was 12 for this reason.' We lobbied each other." The books are not ranked but rather are listed alphabetically to represent that "no book is more important than another," she added. Some books that unanimously made the cut are children's books like "Charlotte's Web" by E.B. White and "Unbroken," a nonfiction book about World War II by "Seabiscuit" author Laura Hillenbrand. Fan favorites like the first installments of the "Harry Potter," "Hunger Games" and "Lord of the Rings" series made the cut. The list also features just one of the No. 1 Amazon Best Books of the Year, Rebecca Skloot's "The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks." "We tried to make sure that we had a pretty good balance of fiction and nonfiction," Nelson said. "In terms of the demographic of the writers, we never sat down and said 'we need more women' or 'we need more books from different cultural groups or countries.' But overall, when I eyeball that list, it seems to have a lot of variation." The book most hotly debated by the editorial team was George Orwell's dystopian novel "1984. " "It wasn't so much 'Is "1984" a great book?' but 'Should we put "1984" or "Brave New World"? Should we put "Lord of the Rings" or "The Hobbit"?' On a 100 book list, you probably can't put both," Nelson said. "We tried to find books that were iconic and that would lead to other books." The list leaves off classics like "Les Misrables" and "Moby Dick," though some editors argued for their inclusion. You can vote for which selections you like and suggest new ones at Goodreads. Amazon will compile a list of reader picks in the coming weeks. All the books on the list are included in the gallery above -- let us know which ones you agree with and which you think were unfairly omitted in the comments section below.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/11/living/school-sabbaticals/index.html	living	My kids are taking a school sabbatical - CNN.com	2014/05/11	Sunday May 11 10:14:04 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A couple years ago, my husband and I realized that our family had moved out of the baby stage. The labor-intensive work of the early parenting years was behind us. Suddenly we were hurtling toward middle school and our home life was revving up. With work, school and the usual activities of suburban family life, all five of us were giving our best everywhere else. By the end of the day, we didn't have much left for each other. I wanted to slow it all down. I pitched an idea to my husband, Alex: For one school semester, from January to June, we'd take a family sabbatical. Our children are 11, 8 and nearly 5 years old -- old enough to carry their own backpacks, but not so old that they don't want to hang with us anymore. We decided to hit the pause button on everyday life and do something memorable as a family. As we worked out the logistics, we decided on two main goals: We wanted our children to spend time with their grandparents, and we wanted to travel around the United States. My husband couldn't take six months off from work, but we could plan a trip that would allow Alex to spend the workweek at home and meet up for long weekends. I talked with the principal of our boys' public elementary school about our plan and she didn't tell me it was a bad idea. Neither did our pediatrician, or our kids' teachers, when I asked their opinions. The grandparents were happy to have time with the children. Our friends told us we were either brave or nuts. The kids loved the adventure of it all, although they weren't thrilled about leaving their friends. Last December, we withdrew our children from school and signed an agreement with the school district acknowledging our responsibility for their education. 'Stop the madness' It's hard to say how often families decide to take sabbaticals. Many families homeschool their children, and a subset of those families "roadschool," packing everything into a van or RV and hitting the road for an indefinite period of time. Most sabbaticals, like ours, are designed to be temporary. Our kids are already registered for school in September, when they will enter kindergarten and third and sixth grades. The sabbatical just offers a break from a whirling dervish life at home. Amy and Keith Carney know the feeling. The Carneys, who live in Paradise Valley, Arizona, plan to leave in a few weeks for a seven-month sabbatical with their 12-year-old triplet sons and 11-year-old daughter. Keith spent more than 20 years playing and then coaching in the National Hockey League, jobs that frequently kept him away from home. Three of the Carney kids play competitive sports, and Amy said their family life became dominated by tournaments and escalating pressures at school. They vacationed in Europe but didn't find those trips relaxing. About a year ago, the Carneys started talking about taking an extended break with their children. One of the kids anxiously asked whether the trip would prevent him from getting into the National Honor Society. "I had never even mentioned National Honor Society to him," said Amy Carney. "I was like, 'You've got to be kidding me!'" Their son's anxiety served to reinforce the Carneys' concern that pressure to achieve might distract their children from enjoying -- or even noticing -- life's simpler pleasures. "I just said, 'Stop the madness.' There's so much emphasis on grades and sports," Amy Carney said. "We don't want them to think that's all there is in life." The Carneys worked with their financial adviser to plan for their sabbatical. They sold some land in Florida to buy a 45-foot Allegro bus. Keith left his coaching job with the Chicago Blackhawks. They found someone to rent their house while they're gone. Amy, a model and freelance writer, courted sponsors for their trip, and struck a deal with Kampgrounds of America to write about their travels in exchange for free campsites. "We have never camped a day in our life," Amy Carney said. "My kids have been to the Eiffel Tower, they've been to the Colosseum in Rome, but they've never been to a national park." My family's sabbatical came together differently. We live one street over from my husband's parents, but my parents are based in Florida for half the year. Our highest sabbatical priority was to spend time with them, so we decided to head south and join the snowbirds in Florida. We spent three months living two floors down from Grandmom and Pop Pop's condo, surrounded almost entirely by retirees. I worried that our hallway-running, cannonball-jumping boisterousness might ruin my parents' good reputation among their friends, but our neighbors could not have been more welcoming. The kids reveled in the grandparent-to-child ratio found exclusively in South Florida, whooping it up at condo association parties, and telling long, detailed stories to neighbors who listened patiently to every word. Pop Pop let the boys zoom golf carts around the fairways. Our daughter rode the elevator in her pajamas to have breakfast with her grandparents. Grandmom joined us for field trips, helped oversee school assignments and invited the kids to cook dinner with her. My aunt, a retired biology teacher, visited for two weeks and did science projects with each child. When the experiments were finished, we held a little science fair in the community clubhouse. We're now four months into our sabbatical. We are a family of five personalities, and not every day is an awesome day. We've had rough days, travel fatigue and homesickness. We've weathered a lice infestation, stolen credit cards, a stomach bug, one lost driver's license, a couple of ear infections and more public meltdowns than I care to recall. 'Take your opportunity when you can' As we planned the trip, I wanted to make sure the kids' time away from school would be spent wisely. I needn't have worried; there is no shortage of educational opportunities. In fact, it didn't take long to realize that if we really wanted to explore the places we were visiting, we wouldn't have much time for traditional schoolwork. We pared down the "homeschooling" part to just the essentials. The boys have continued the same math curriculum their classmates are finishing in school. My husband shuttles suitcases of library books back and forth from home, and the boys write about our adventures and discoveries. Once we decided to let learning happen through experiences, we were off and running. We learned about aquatic ecosystems at the Conservancy of Southwest Florida. We spotted manatees, dolphins, manta rays and bald eagles in the Everglades and Gulf of Mexico. We checked out Art Deco buildings and tried Cuban food in Miami. The boys were introduced to physics during a Disney Youth Education class in the Magic Kingdom. They rode Space Mountain twice, once with lights on and then with lights off, to learn how coaster designers use physics to trick our senses and increase the thrill factor on a ride. Our sons also looked forward to every one of the marine life classes they took at Sanibel Sea School, where they played on the beach and learned about sharks, pelicans and dolphins. We drove to the end of Interstate 95 and continued all the way to Key West, then boarded a ferry and traveled across the Straits of Florida to snorkel and camp at Dry Tortugas National Park. We read stories from 1890s editions of The New York Times about Dry Tortuga's Fort Jefferson, which was used as a military prison during the Civil War. At the end of March, we loaded everyone into our minivan and headed to Washington, D.C. For a month, we rented a furnished apartment and lived the city life, eating lunch from food trucks, riding the Metro and walking from museum to monument to memorial and back again. We studied American history and examined documents during a Constitution-in-Action family program at the National Archives. Our visits to the Archives, Dry Tortugas, Ford's Theatre and Arlington National Cemetery highlighted different elements of the Civil War and Abraham Lincoln's presidency. One of my favorite parts of this trip has been watching the kids gather bits of information and weave their newfound knowledge into a fuller understanding of history. We didn't plot all this out before we left home; it evolved on its own. That's what we were hoping would happen. Beverly and John Shane of Manhattan Beach, California, seized a similar opportunity when their sixth-grader was studying ancient civilizations. Six years ago, the Shanes took their two sons on a five-month trip through Europe and the Middle East. Both Beverly and John had retired from Dell computers several years before, and had long discussed taking an extended family trip. The boys were 12 and 7 at the time, and the Shanes hired Ellen Regenstreif, an acquaintance with teaching experience and a passion for travel, to put together an educational travel experience for them. Regenstreif suggested a trip through ancient outposts of the Roman Empire, and organized a journey through a dozen countries for the Shanes. Regenstreif so enjoyed planning the trip that she started Child Tours, which organizes educational trips for other families. Because their trip closely tracked the school's curriculum, the children's private school agreed to let them ship completed work to their teachers and move up to the next grade with their classmates when they returned. But both boys learned lessons that reached beyond the academic world, Beverly Shane said. One day in Turkey, a group of boys played soccer as the family walked nearby; they kicked the ball over to one of the Shane boys to include him in their game. "Things like that made you realize there are so many nice and welcoming people," Beverly Shane said. "You really have to take your opportunity when you can. I guess the perfect storm of age and career and everything kind of came together for us." 'I remember it vividly' The last leg of our trip starts this weekend, when we'll head out west to visit national parks in Utah, Arizona, Montana and Wyoming. It's hard to have much perspective on our own sabbatical while we're still immersed in it. All three children had phenomenal teachers this year, and it pained us to take them out of those classrooms. Our daughter is young for a trip like this, but she loves the time with her grandparents. Both Alex's parents and mine will join us for some of the western adventures. Just after we left home in January, as we wondered whether this was such a good idea after all, my husband got an e-mail from a professional acquaintance. Alex Lash, a 44-year-old biotech writer who lives in San Francisco, wrote to tell us his parents had taken him out of school in fourth grade to drive around Mexico in a van. His stepfather was a college professor and took the whole family on an academic sabbatical. I wanted to know what Lash remembered 35 years after his family's trip. He told me about exploring Mayan ruins, spending hours studying the road map and renting a house on the beach for a few weeks. He recalled that some of the drives were long and boring, and he laughed when he told me he made the whole family listen to the "Grease" soundtrack over and over. "I remember it vividly, a lot of it," Lash said. "It was amazing." Every parent knows there are a lot of ways to make great family memories; long, elaborate trips aren't necessary. But we wanted to give this sabbatical a shot, and we've succeeded at spending a lot of uninterrupted time together, for better and for worse. I don't know what our children will remember decades from now: The science experiments? The dinners with grandparents? The head lice? -- but I can't imagine a better outcome than hearing them laugh at the memories. Would you consider a school sabbatical for your children? Why or why not? Share your ideas in the comments, on Twitter @CNNschools or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/04/living/screen-free-week-schools-susan-linn/index.html	living	Does your tot need that tablet? - CNN.com	2014/05/04	Sunday May 4 10:59:42 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Susan Linn is the director of the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, which organizes Screen-Free Week. She is the author of "The Case for Make Believe: Saving Play in a Commercialized World" and a psychologist at Harvard Medical School.     How do you manage children's screen time in your home or classroom? Join @CNNSchools for a Twitter chat about it at noon ET May 7. Use the hashtag #CNNParents to weigh in!  (CNN) -- Screen-Free Week, the international, seven-day celebration of life beyond screen-based amusements, begins today. It's a great time to take a much-needed vacation from digital entertainment. Each year, often in conjunction with schools, organizations and whole communities, families exchange their usual screen-based leisure time activities for more time playing, creating, reading, dreaming, connecting with nature and enjoying family and friends. (Yes, we still have to use screens for work and homework.) If you can't celebrate this year, make it a point to join us in 2015. Taking a break gives us a chance to catch our breath, look at how much time we and our children spend with screens and perhaps even decide to make some important lifestyle changes. Many kids spend too much time with screens -- and it's not good for them. As a psychologist and director of an advocacy organization focused on children and families, I frequently speak to parents about the impact of media and technology on young children. What I hear repeatedly is that the recent explosion of screen devices raises increasingly complicated challenges. Digital media are so compelling, exciting and omnipresent that it's getting harder to figure out how, when and even whether to set limits. Adding to the confusion is the ubiquitous and persuasive marketing of screen products as educational for young children -- even for babies -- and that digital media are a often a surefire way for overstressed parents to keep their children occupied. Screens are a fact of 21st-century life, and kids find them entrancing. Why should we set limits or deprive young children of digital experiences? One compelling reason is that excessive screen time is linked to a host of childhood problems, including poor school performance, attention issues, sleep disturbance, obesity and more. That's why the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends discouraging screen time for children younger than 2 and setting limits on time and content for older children. Because the explosion of smart phones and tablets is so new, most of the research on harmful effects is associated with television, but emerging studies are beginning to raise concerns about time with all kinds of digital media. At the same time, research suggests that monitoring time and content can mitigate some of screen media's negative effects. As kids get older, setting limits becomes more challenging, but it's still important. By adolescence, if not before, digital technologies are often completely integrated into homework assignments, connecting with friends and gathering information about the world. That's why many families make sure to preserve screen-free family meals or institute at least one night a week when, except for homework, they all ditch their devices and spend time engaged in other activities. Since it's much easier to increase children's time with screens rather than take it away, it's helpful to recognize the need to make thoughtful decisions about media use early on. What do our youngest children actually learn from digital media? One thing they may learn is to need screens for stimulation and soothing. For better or worse, the roots of lifelong habits and behaviors form in early childhood. The experiences we have in our first years of life -- and the experiences we don't have -- shape the very structure of our brains. Limited time with quality screen media and technology can be educational for preschoolers. But digital devices are by no means essential to their learning. As for babies and toddlers, the more time children younger than 2 spend with screens, the more time they spend as older children and the harder time they have turning them off. Despite unsubstantiated corporate marketing claims that apps can teach babies as young as 6 months numbers and letters, there's no evidence that infants and toddlers learn anything meaningful from any kind of screen time. There is plenty of evidence about what they need for healthy brain development -- hands-on play, active play and face-to-face engagement with the adults who love them. Babies thrive when they're talked to, played with and read to. Time with screens takes them away from those crucial activities. What's most important for babies, preschoolers and even kindergartners is to learn how to learn. They need the time, space and silence for hands-on creative play. They need to explore the world with all their senses, to nurture their creativity and constructive problem solving and to learn social skills to build the ability to work and play with other people. They need to acquire patience, develop stamina and be able to delay gratification. They need to learn to act, rather than merely react. They need to learn to generate their own amusements and to enjoy and value their own creations. Young children can't learn most of these skills and attributes effectively from a screen. In fact, most of what very young children encounter on a screen today inhibits rather than promotes the kind of creative problem solving so essential to learning. Makers of new digital media for young children distance their products from video and television by marketing so-called educational apps and games as "interactive," but a 2012 Australian study found that only 2% of the apps marketed as education for young children promote the kind of open-ended exploration that fosters learning. For parents worried about the strain of limiting digital entertainment, Screen-Free Week is a good time to experiment and see what it's like to replace screen entertainment with other activities. After all, it's only seven days. You might enjoy it -- most people do. What are rules around screen time in your household or your children's school? Share your thoughts in the comments or CNN Living's Facebook page. Join @CNNSchools on at noon ET Wednesday for a Twitter chat about kids and screens.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/24/living/wedding-food-etiquette-matrimony/index.html	living	How not to leave a wedding hungry - CNN.com	2014/04/24	Thursday Apr 24 11:34:18 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- To hear the bride tell it, all the guests should have left stuffed. In traditional New Orleans fashion, servers passed groaning trays of shrimp remoulade, mini-muffulettas, boudin balls, crab cakes, crawfish and every oyster preparation under the sun. And the open bar flowed freely. Locals chowed down and kicked up their heels. But the out-of-towners (mostly the groom's family) got progressively drunker, crankier and confused, forgoing the appetizers and roaming the reception venue for the sit-down dinner they were sure was coming. It never did. At a New Orleans-style reception, the copious, usually hand-carried hors d'oeuvres and small-plate stations are the meal. Miss them, and the best you can hope for is a slice of cake -- and a nearby restaurant that serves late. Weddings celebrate the union of two warm souls who have found each other in this often cold, lonely and wicked world. Getting to witness that should (in theory) be enough for anyone. But guests have come to expect that after buying a present, getting all dolled up and getting to the wedding on time, they're going to get fed -- and those traditions vary wildly from region to region and culture to culture. If two people from the same neck of the woods are tying the knot, the majority of guests will likely know what to expect, food and booze-wise. But if the happy bride and groom hail from different states, faiths or ethnic and economic backgrounds, there's a good chance that some guests may be caught off guard. Sometimes it's a pleasant surprise: "Oh my gosh, I could have eaten 10 more plates of that mostaccioli!" Sometimes it's less so: "No alcohol?! Can I get my present back?" To minimize rumbling stomachs, sloppy-drunk (or angrily sober) antics and hard feelings that will inevitably make it back through the rumor mill to the newlyweds, it helps to set some expectations for what will and won't be served at the reception. For the couple So much agitation and ill will can be avoided by just stating up front what kind of reception spread you're planning to have. Yes, it's potentially awkward, but so many points of wedding etiquette are. Consider it a courtesy to let your guests know if and how much they're going to be fed, so they can make plans to eat before or after, and if there is going to be anything other than an open bar so they know to bring cash (or a flask.) If it's an apps-only reception with no sit-down dinner, the clearest and most socially acceptable course of action is to say "cocktail reception," "cocktails and hors d'oeuvres" or "cake and punch to follow" on the invitation, one of the inserts or your wedding website. Setting an end point for the festivities early in the evening indicates to guests that they'll need to make alternate dining arrangements. That's easily achieved by saying that the cocktail hour will be from 4 to 6 p.m. or 5 to 7 p.m. In much of the United States, cutting a cake or serving dessert indicates the point at which guests may feel free to politely make an exit, so it's best to have that all wrapped by 8 p.m. That way, the night is young, and guests can still forage for food out in the world while they're sober enough to do so. If you're serving regionally specific fare, letting guests know ahead of time what they're in for can whet their appetite, guide them to arrive full or help them plan their wardrobe. A bride or groom's dream New England clambake, North Carolina pig picking or traditional Italian spread may be a guest's seafood allergy, vegetarian or dry cleaning nightmare. Just drop a hint in an invitation insert, on your wedding website or by word of mouth, and know that you've done your due dinner diligence. As for alcohol -- this can be tricky, but it's easy to clue guests in to what the booze situation will be. While you are under no obligation to serve alcohol or mention that you are not doing so, the reality is that many people will arrive with the expectation that they'll be toasting your nuptials with at least one glass of something higher-proof than lemonade, and that it will be on your dime. Wedding expert Emily Post advises asking family and wedding party members to share your plans with other guests as they would any other piece of wedding information. She also notes that it's fine to mention casually that there won't be any alcohol served at the event, and for large parties where not all guests are on regular chatting terms with the core cast, a discrete "please know that alcohol will not be served" may appear on an invitation insert or the wedding website. No reception issue may be more fraught than that of the cash bar. A 2010 CNN Eatocracy poll on the subject drew more than 37,000 responses and more than 700 comments, with the majority indicating that if a full, open bar wasn't provided, the beer and wine had better flow freely. Five percent of respondents said they'd refuse to attend altogether if there were no alcohol served, and 23% grudgingly agreed to the cash bar if and only if it were an economic necessity. So unless you roll with a totally teetotaling crowd, someone's feathers will get ruffled. Accept that now and forever hold your peace -- but consider letting a few of your more loquacious friends quietly spread the word so guests don't show up thirsty and empty-walleted. For the guests You like at least one (and ideally both) of these folks, right? Otherwise you wouldn't be hitching up your fancy pants and hauling over to the VFW Hall, church basement or random beach where they've decided to pledge their eternal love to one another. It behooves you to be graceful and grateful to be invited, even if you're made to stand in an empty mall parking lot to nibble Tic Tacs and swig warm fruit punch. That said, it doesn't hurt to do your homework. If the nuptials are taking place in New Orleans, grab every last scrap of alligator sausage and beignet off the tray and savor it. If you're in Pittsburgh, know to save room in your stomach (and pockets) for the thousands of cookies that female relatives have made. If barbecue is on the menu, consider not wearing your most stain-attracting silk. And as a last resort, pack an energy bar or a flask. The bride or groom will have enough on their plate, so ask a wedding party or family member what's going to be on yours. Got a wedding food or beverage horror story? We'd love to hear all about it in the comments below.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/11/living/be-a-better-bridesmaid-matrimony/index.html	living	10 ways not to screw up the bride's day - CNN.com	2014/04/11	Friday Apr 11 01:04:27 EDT 2014	(Town & Country) -- It's April, which means wedding season is upon us. If you already know that, not because you're a bride-to-be but because you're knee-deep in bridesmaid commitments, you also know how stressful it can be to be in a wedding party. So here, we tapped Eimear Lynch, a five-time bridesmaid and author of the book "The Bridesmaids: True Tales of Love, Envy, Loyalty...and Terrible Dresses," for her guidelines to get you through the process. Town & Country: Bridesmaid dresses you'll actually want to wear 1. Always agree with the bride It doesn't matter whether she has asked for your opinion on her dress, your dress or the flowers. All she really wants is blanket approval for everything she has planned, from the equestrian-themed shower to her quirky Sophia Webster wedding shoes. "Well, I love it!" is all you ever need to say. 2. Lean in There's nothing worse than being trapped in an e-mail chain with a bunch of bridesmaids masking passive-aggressive suggestions with XOXOs. Everyone will (eventually) thank you for taking charge when it comes to planning a drama-free shower or bachelorette party. Town & Country: 10 ways to incorporate your dog into your wedding 3. Make friends Yes, interbridesmaid alliances will help you get your way in stalemates over bachelorette venue or shower gifts, but those bridesmaids and groomsmen (and wedding laypeople too, I guess) are also future friends, co-workers or boyfriends. 4. Sweat the small stuff You read that right. Weddings are high-stress and ultra-emotional, and a blowout fight can be triggered by something as simple as a mention of the bride's eligible ex-boyfriend. Speak carefully as the wedding draws near, and keep even quieter on the day itself. Elle: 25 Jaw-Dropping Celebrity Engagement Rings 5. Pick up the phone Eighty percent of pre-wedding drama could be avoided if people spoke on the phone instead of sending snippy, insensitive texts and e-mails. If you need to tell the bride something potentially upsetting (such as "I can't make it to your eighth shower" or "We cannot have your bachelorette party in the Seychelles"), do it on the phone or in person. 6. Try it on, try it on, try it on You might not want to wear your bridesmaid dress for one extra second, but you should. You'll probably get the dress months before the wedding, and there's a chance you'll gain or lose weight in the lead-up to the big day. I have been privy to a few sewed-into-the-dress situations, and I can tell you they're far from ideal. Elle: 10 Couples Who Said "I Do" In a Different Way 7. Consider your updo So you just sat down with your friend's hometown hairstylist. Say, "Do whatever you like!" and you'll end up with prom hair pinned with baby's breath. Instead, bring an inspiration photo and be specific about what you want (and don't want). Same goes for makeup. 8. Remember, this isn't even A LITTLE BIT about you Hate your hairstyle? Dislike your dress? Grossed out by the groomsmen? You can keep all that to yourself, because your job is marvelously simple: Support and celebrate the bride and her groom. Elle: 10 Destinations for a Dream Wedding 9. Drink responsibly Before you have that sixth glass of Sauvignon Blanc, think ahead to your place in the wedding album. Do you want to be immortalized in a damp bridesmaid dress with a half-undone bun and tear-streaked makeup? If so, order away! 10. Have a ball This is the one time you'll get to indulge in all-out celebration of your sister or dear friend. And you'll do it over lunch, drinks, dinner, and dancing with some people you love (and, sure, some you detest). Why not try to enjoy it? Town and Country: 10 Classic Wedding Photos From the Past  Reprinted with permission of Hearst Communications, Inc. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/04/living/preston-bailey-decorating-with-flowers-matrimony/index.html	living	How to decorate with wedding flowers - CNN.com	2014/04/04	Friday Apr 4 09:53:13 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- If you're a celebrity, royal, CEO or athlete planning to stride down the aisle, there's one name you'll hear sprouting from everyone's lips: Preston Bailey. The Panama-born designer has spent the past three decades decorating all manner of lush, lavish events around the globe, but weddings -- complete with his signature massive floralscapes -- are where he's most deeply rooted. Bailey is far from the only flower fanatic out there: A 2014 study by the Association of Bridal Consultants showed the average wedding costs of $28,016, and including about $1,800 for "flowers and decorations." The study estimates bridal bouquets at $139, reception table centerpieces at $366, flower girl flower at $86 and flower girl petals at $84. Bailey's newest book, "Designing with Flowers," hits bookstores on April 8. CNN spoke with him about how to create a floral fantasy for your own wedding -- even if you don't have a bloomin' big budget. An edited transcript is below. CNN: Why do weddings and flowers go together so well? Bailey: The reason is simple. Flowers have always been a symbol of celebration. It's a great way to convey happiness and beauty. If you walk into a room that has flowers, you immediately respond in a very positive way. It's a mood-changing thing. You feel something. It's dealing with emotions. I really got turned on to flowers on one of the cherry blossom weekends in Washington. It was the most incredible thing in the world and I had a moment where I imagined, "What would happen if I could bring this inside?" CNN: Flowers aren't just visual. What impact are you going for with the rest of the senses? Bailey: The scent can almost transport you elsewhere. I've always felt I did a great job when I created a room with beautiful flowers and the guests are so happy and excited that they don't want to leave. I think "OK, I nailed it." I try to create rooms that are so beautiful and powerful, not just visually, but with scent, that people are happy and feel a sense of celebration. CNN: People have traditional spots for flowers in their wedding -- maybe in a bouquet, as centerpieces or tied to the ends of pews. Where should they focus their energy (and budget)? Bailey: Flowers don't need to be only in vases. They can be in a napkin or on the table or in the aisle. In the book, we have strands blowing in the wind. I'd like to encourage people to think out of the vase, in many different ways that can be exciting. You don't have to limit yourself to arrangements. CNN: Not everyone has a Preston Bailey-level budget. What can they do to get the most bang for their buck? Bailey: When I started, my first budget was $200. I very much believe today what I did then: with a smaller budget, you have to be realistic about the things that are most important. In my mind, one of the most important moments is seeing the bride walking down the aisle. That's the first impression, so you want to create a beautiful bouquet. [Editor's note: When Bailey married his husband Theo Bleckmann in 2013 at age 63, he emerged from a giant bridal sculpture that was rolled down the aisle, carrying a bouquet.] Another important location is the dinner. They're going to be sitting at the table all night, so you want invest some money in a centerpiece or a detail on a napkin. I also like to do something beautiful for the escort card arrangement, because that sets the tone for the event. But a budget's a budget. It's a matter of how much you can afford and how much you can do with it. Concentrate on the areas that are more important and visible and you'll be just fine. CNN: When people are buying flowers, what do they need to consider? Bailey: A lot of places where you buy flowers, they have matured, and they're completely open. That means that they might only last another half a day. You have to know a little bit -- how long they're going to open, what room temperature they need to open. There are flowers that last 10 days and flowers that last one day. It is important to do your research. If you're using a florist, they will know this, but if you're trying to do it yourself, my strongest advice is that if the wedding is not that same day, don't buy flowers that are completely open, because they're going to die on your big wedding day. CNN: Yikes! So how should the flowers be preserved during all the preparation? Bailey: You have to keep in mind that flowers are living beings. It's important to always cut the stems at an angle, before you put them in water. And I'm very old-school. I do not believe in chemicals of any kind. Just make sure that you change the water daily. They love fresh water. They do not like to be in a warm environment, unless you want them to open very quickly. Make sure there's a comfortable room temperature if you want them to open slowly, but changing the water daily is my best advice. CNN: How much attention should couples pay to seasonality? Bailey: You should use seasonal flowers. It's much more cost-effective, they're much more available. In the winter, we do not have a lot available; however, there are flowers like amaryllis, that bloom in December. Paperwhites bloom then, too, and they can be used as potted plants. Amaryllis, by the way, is a beautiful flower with one long stem and it's perfect for a centerpiece. After the wedding, you get to keep it for another couple of weeks. There are ways that, as a designer, I have to think about what's more practical for the season. If you buy spring flowers in the winter, it's going to be five times more expensive. CNN: I'm sure some of your clients want that! Bailey: [Laughs] Yes! You can find them, but it's a lot of cost and I would not advise that. CNN: Is there some flower you hope you never see again? Bailey: I used to say that about carnations, and I changed my mind. There are a couple of cultures that like carnations, and I'm using them now for sculptures instead of just arrangements. They're great because they're very long-lasting -- it's like a flower that never dies! But I always get into trouble when I say this, but I'm going to say it anyway: I grew up in Panama, and in my backyard, there was tons of bird-of-paradise, and we considered them weeds. So I'm not crazy about them. CNN: What flower would you love for more couples to use? Bailey: Vanda orchids. It's a very deep purple flower, and I think it's one of the most beautiful orchids around. But they are so cost-prohibitive, it's ridiculous. I can't wait for the day that somebody creates a less expensive way to make them accessible. On the more affordable side: classic roses. Throughout the year, the cost has been going down because the market is so saturated. Because so many people have been using them, roses have become very cost-effective. CNN: Let's say the couple wants to re-create the magic on their first anniversary. What would be a fun way to recreate the event on a more intimate scale, florally speaking? Bailey: I think it's great to keep the celebration going and see what flowers you used in your wedding and use them again in a different way. I remember one of my clients was celebrating a second anniversary, and we replicated the bride's bouquet. I think that was really great! Celebrate the day with some of the same flowers and I think it could be very meaningful. CNN: You may or may not be able to answer this question, but what's the biggest flower budget a client has ever given you to work with? Bailey: And you're absolutely right -- I can't answer that. It's such a bummer because I'm under confidentiality agreements. But again, it's all relative and what's a lot of money for one person is not for the other. How much did you spend on your wedding flowers, and did you get creative? Let us know in the comments below, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/05/living/78-year-old-twins-reunited/index.html	living	Twins reunited after 78 years - CNN.com	2014/05/05	Monday May 5 09:43:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In 1936, a pregnant single woman in England made the difficult decision to give up one of her newborns, separating fraternal twins. It would be 78 years before the girls were reunited. The two women, now living on different continents, found each other when the daughter of one made a surprising discovery during some genealogical research. Her mother, Ann Hunt, had a twin sister she never knew about. The daughter, Samantha Stacey, wrote a letter to a woman in Oregon, asking if she was born in Aldershot, England. Elizabeth Hamel called England and said she was. In moments, she was speaking to her very long-lost sister. After a year of calling on Skype and getting to know each other, the two finally met on May 1 in California, a long way from Aldershot, where they were born to a mother who worked as a live-in servant. Alice Lamb was a cook and the girls' father -- a man named Peters who never met the twins -- was in the British Army, the BBC reported. Hamel said she was born with a curvature of the spine, the reason Lamb kept that daughter. She couldn't afford to keep both of them. Hamel, who lived with an aunt for the first years of her life, said she had been told as a child that she had a sister. But she knew it would be difficult to find her, especially since her twin likely changed her name when she got married. And she had no idea if her sister had moved from Aldershot, as she had done. When they saw each other for the first time, Hunt was overwhelmed. "I couldn't speak. I was so happy," she said Monday. "It's like you're dreaming. Even now I have to pinch myself." The twins don't look much alike and say they have different personalities. But during an interview with CNN, they did act like sisters, sometimes bickering lovingly and sometimes finishing the sentence for the other. Hunt said she is normally more talkative, and Hamel is the more sensible one. They both said they lead very busy lives, which will make staying in touch, already complicated because of the eight-hour time difference, a bit difficult. They share at least one trait, though, Hunt insisted. "We use our hands in a similar manner," she said. Hamel said that while they may not look the same in the face, they have the same feet. They also discovered they married men with the same first name (and same last initial). When they reunited Hamel looked for similarities. "You think, this is someone like me," said Hamel, who is 20 minutes older. Both were raised as the only child in the family, though Hunt had no idea she had a twin until her daughter told her last year. The two have exchanged gifts, something common among reunited twins, said Nancy Segal, a psychology professor at Cal State Fullerton and author of four books about twins. "These are the kinds of things that twins do for each other but here they have do those gifts a little bit more because they have to make up for all those years that they didn't share one another's lives," she said. Segal became involved with these twins when Hamel's son wrote her an email about the unique case. She interviewed Hamel and Hunt to see how environment affects twins who are raised apart. She said fraternal twins are less likely to be close friends and don't stay in contact as closely as identical twins. After spending a few days in the Los Angeles area, the twins are heading to Oregon to catch up some more, Segal said. On 78 years.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/23/living/bartender-tip-dog/index.html	living	Man leaves $1,000 tip for dog's surgery - CNN.com	2014/04/23	Wednesday Apr 23 03:07:00 EDT 2014	Tell us the good stuff! Go to CNN iReport to share your stories of people helping others, showing kindness and acting heroically in big ways and small. (CNN) -- Good people, not to mention good tippers, do exist. Christina Summitt knows that for sure now after what happened Saturday night. The paw-print tattoo on Summitt's wrist often leads to conversations with strangers about her love of animals; she's a volunteer with a pit bull rescue group and spends lots of time finding homes for animals of all kinds. While tending bar at the Holiday Inn in Clinton, New Jersey, Summitt got to chatting with a friendly couple before the night got busy. The man asked her if she had dogs of her own; she confided that her "baby," a Great Dane-black Labrador mix named Tucker, was at the veterinary hospital after having emergency surgery hours earlier after he swallowed a hard plastic ball. She was worried about him. The man said something about surgery being expensive. She confided the estimate was around $2,700, but she would do whatever she had to do for the dog, whom she adopted in 2011. Summitt, 37, works three jobs -- full-time as a chef at the hotel, Saturdays as a bartender, and as a food prep worker two days a week at a deli in her town. Her husband works full-time and Summitt has three stepchildren. The couple ordered drinks and dinner at the bar. When it was time to close out their $80 tab, the man filled out the receipt with a tip -- for $1,000. Summitt said she started shaking and crying. She showed the bill to her sister, who tends bar with her, to make sure she was seeing three zeros after the 1. "I went back over and said 'Sir, I cannot accept this, what is this for, why would you do this?'" she said. He told her to put it toward Tucker's medical costs. "I just stood there in shock. I walked around and hugged this couple. They said, 'We'll be praying for Tucker.'" Hotel manager Michelle Satanik told CNN she followed up with her comptroller and also tracked down the customer this week to verify that the gesture was legitimate. CNN has attempted to contact the generous tipper through Summitt, who kept his name anonymous for his privacy. "Apparently this man does this quite frequently. Just a really nice guy and humanitarian," Satanik said. "I have never ever seen a $1,000 tip like that." Summitt shared the story on Facebook and CNN iReport with a photo of the credit card slip and a picture of Tucker being held by her 16-year-old stepson before they left the dog at the hospital for surgery. A Facebook page she follows called "Why Bartenders and Servers Hate People" reposted the story on Easter Sunday with this caption: "This is a place for us to vent but every so often, especially on holidays, we have to be thankful for the amazing customers that are out there." Summitt says she's since gotten messages of support from all over the world. "I would also love nothing more than to publicly thank this couple in front of the world. I've never seen a random act give so many people so much hope," she wrote. Tucker is recovering at home.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/07/living/senior-beauty-pageant/index.html	living	It's never too late to be fabulous at the Ms. Senior Florida Pageant - CNN.com	2014/04/07	Monday Apr 7 08:38:00 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Tia Brueggeman is a coordinator with CNN's "The Lead with Jake Tapper." Her grandmother was a contestant in the Ms. Senior Florida 2014 pageant. (CNN) -- To look at Julianne Talley, a statuesque 61-year-old beauty, one would never know she has conquered both obesity and cancer. The Ms. Senior Florida contestant glided through the Vero Beach High School Performing Arts Center with the humility of someone who underestimates her beauty. Little did she know, she was about to be crowned Ms. Senior Florida 2014. Talley's platform is one of self-acceptance and self-improvement: "It's a message to the woman in the audience who thinks 'I'm always going to be heavy' or 'I can't dance'... yes you can," she said during dress rehearsal. While we're accustomed to beauty pageants featuring women in their 20s strutting in bikinis, the Ms. Senior America pageant seeks women with "dignity, maturity and inner beauty," who are older than 60. There's no upper age limit and no bikinis are required. The oldest contestant in Florida this year was 86. Pageant organizers Hedi Headley and Helen McKnight worked for months gathering contestants from around the state of Florida. The 15 women who were selected rehearsed almost every week between January and March. The ladies were judged on their interview, philosophy of life, talent and gown presentation during the March 29 competition. The Ms. Senior America Pageant has been around for 35 years, but the state level competitions vary in their founding year. Headly and McKnight originally founded the Ms. Senior Arizona Pageant in 1990, when they weren't even 50 yet themselves. "We saw a need to encourage the older adult and especially women that feel they become invisible as they age," said Headly. Semi-retired in Florida, Headly and McKnight took over running the Ms. Senior Florida Pageant last year. The contestants evolved before Headly's eyes. "Most of the ladies have never even talked into a microphone before rehearsals," she said. The granny of yesteryear, sitting in a rocking chair knitting, is a thing of the past if the pageant is any indication. Today, women over 60 are rocking it on stage: singing, dancing, sharing their inventions and even belly dancing at senior beauty pageants around the country. The Ms. Senior pageants give contestants a chance to do something many of them never dreamed of doing in their 20s, 30s or even 50s -- take the spotlight and share their wisdom and talent with hundreds of people. In addition to the crown, Talley won "Best Talent" for singing and playing "Sentimental Journey" on the piano. Talley faced a long journey to get where she is today. Overweight most of her life, 10 years ago, she lost 100 pounds and kept it off. "I decided to enter the competition after a lot of thought and prayer, when I realized that it was an opportunity to reach my dream to touch women across the country, to inspire them to take better care of themselves, and to set goals, dream dreams, and do what it takes to reach those goals," said Talley She wants to encourage other women to become physically fit even as seniors, which is a message she will take to the Ms. Senior America Pageant this October at the Resorts Hotel Casino in Atlantic City. "It has been my dream to reach women across the country to encourage them that we 'ain't dead yet'!" said Talley. The second runner-up was Ann Palle, a 60-year-old baton twirler who leads a 105-person senior citizen baton twirling team that performs in about 55 shows a year. The oldest twirler is 95. "It's nice to get together with these ladies because we all bring something very different, but this pageant brings us together," Palle said. Each of these women has a distinct philosophy, and if laughter is the key to longevity, Lauren Luccini "Miss Congeniality," will live forever. "When I used to date, men used to open the car door for you," she told the audience in her standup comedy routine during the talent competition. "Now, I'm glad if they even stop the car." Then there was, Julie Dohan, who at 81 went from modeling to art dealing to inventing, but believes "the best is yet to come." Raven-haired contestant Lucille DiBartolo is a 79-year-old Mediterranean beauty who still gets carded for proof of her senior citizenship. (Full disclosure: This lovely lady is my grandmother, and I attended the pageant to support her.) Encouraging young women to be more confident, she added that, "it's not who you are but who you perceive yourself to be." Last year's winner, Betsy Horn, stopped by to encourage the women. An ovarian cancer survivor, Horn wrote a book, "A Little Touch of Cancer and How it Made Me Well," and encourages women to share their inspirational stories, which can come from hardship. "You can't get through life without having some event that happens that challenges one deeply and emotionally," she said. "As you get to know the ladies, you realize that everyone does have a story and that they were survivors." Horn had high praise for 2014's Ms. Senior Florida contestants: "I came away this year thinking these women all have a lot to offer, so they should all get out there and do something!"  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/03/living/hispanic-latino-identity/index.html	living	Hispanic or Latino? Why their identity is so complicated - CNN.com	2014/05/03	Saturday May 3 01:15:17 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- If there's one thing everyone should know about Hispanics in the United States, it's that this rapidly growing minority has an undefined identity crisis. Why? Because of the confusion surrounding what to call people whose ethnic background is from Latin American and Spanish-speaking countries. Some even feel 100% American or 100% Latino -- or Hispanic, depending to whom you're talking. How do you know which term to use? "Hispanic" and "Latino" are often used interchangeably and aim to describe the same group of people, but technically they do not mean the same thing. What's more, within Hispanic communities in the United States, most people identify with their country of origin and often use hyphens to represent their loyalties to both cultures: like "Mexican-American." We're constantly having to straddle two worlds: the one where our families came from and where we've chosen to live. To make matters even more complicated, all that can change depending on where Latinos are in any given moment. When I'm in my parents' native country of Peru, I'm American with Peruvian parents and that's that. No matter how hard I've tried to be "Peruvian enough" to my fellow Peruvians, I might as well be a gringa in their eyes. Share your immigration story with CNN iReport And, when I'm back in United States, someone will inevitably ask me where I'm from in a way that suggests I'm not from the good ol' U.S. of A. In other words, imagine having to constantly tell people that you're made of two colors: blue and yellow, but all people see is green, and you constantly have to go in the light and show them you are made of both colors. Identifying as Hispanic or Latino comes with its ups and downs. But perhaps breaking down what these terms mean and how they're used within this diverse community of 54 million Latinos can help shed some light on our experience. Hispanic or Latino? Years ago, I attended a media networking event hoping to meet more established journalists. I remember saying something along the lines of, "Ah, the joys of being Hispanic," and an older Latina woman turned around and said, "No, sweetie, you are a Latina. Don't refer to yourself as Hispanic. The government invented that word for us." Um, OK. I think I hit a nerve. Then, a younger Latino man snickered and asked her to not take those labels so seriously. She quickly turned to him and, judging by her wide eyes and stiff demeanor, she clearly did not agree. Her eyes then met with mine and she looked at me as if I had to make a choice: Hispanic or Latino? What's it going to be? The room immediately felt as if it divided into two uncomfortable teams. I could feel the warm embrace from the "Hispanic team," which was easygoing and used both terms interchangeably, and imagined them saying to me, "Come on over! Hispanic? Latino? Whatever you feel is best." But the looming eyes of "Latino team" made me feel obligated to side with them and take some kind of political stance on the term. Using Latino had a slight "sticking it to the man" feel. I wasn't sure how I felt about identifying with either term, so I decided to hold my tongue, take a deep breath and smile. Even though this woman I had never met tried to impose her label on me, she was partially right. The term Hispanic was first used by the U.S. government in the 1970s in an attempt to count people from Mexico, Cuba and Central and South America but what she failed to mention was that the term has existed for centuries. Back then, there wasn't a private or public sector that had a uniform way of collecting data on the Hispanic community, so a committee was formed and it opted not to use Latino because, if taken literally, it could include Europeans of Latin origin. The goal was to accurately account for this growing and discriminated against population so laws could be implemented to help with their needs as well as trace their accomplishments. The term Latino finally came to fruition in the 2000 census as a more inclusive way to include mixed races known as "mestizo" or "mulato" in Central and South America. In short, Hispanic refers to language and Latino refers to geography. One reason for my ambivalence with both these terms is that I didn't grow up using either one. I was born and raised in New Jersey by my Peruvian immigrant parents in a predominantly Hispanic community where everyone identified with their family's country of origin. I was Peruvian for the better half of my life and it's perhaps why I use the terms interchangeably and have no preference. I'm not alone. Most Hispanics in the United States prefer to use their country of origin to describe themselves most often. About half said they have no preference for either term but for those who did, Hispanic was preferred over "Latino," according to the Pew Research Center. "For example, in California, the state with the largest Hispanic population, 30% say they prefer 'Hispanic' and 17% say they prefer the term 'Latino,'" according to Pew. The results were similar in Florida and New York. The only exception is Texas where there was an overwhelming preference for "Hispanic." Among Hispanic Texans, 46% prefer the term Hispanic, while 8% say they prefer Latino. But this wasn't always the case. "There was a time when Latino was primarily used in the West Coast and Hispanic on the East Coast," said Mark Hugo Lopez, director of Hispanic Research at the Pew Research Center. The use of both pan-ethnic terms are unique to the United States, Lopez added, as is the ongoing identity debate on which term to use. Latino vs. Hispanic on social media Latinos are the most active of all ethnic groups on social media networking sites -- Hispanic adults topping at 72%, followed by African Americans at 68% and whites at 65% -- and CNN recently looked into which term was used more often and in what state across the country. Even though Pew found that Hispanic was preferred over Latino when it came to identity, in the past year, CNN found that Latino was mentioned more on Twitter than Hispanic.  "From what I've seen, the term Hispanic inspires more rage than Latino," said Adrian Carrasquillo, former social media manager at NBC Latino and now editor of Latino coverage for BuzzFeed. "For a long time the Latino community has been fragmented, but now they are starting to have more cohesion and the rise of Latino is bringing people together more," he added. The term's popularity may also have to do with the sudden surge of niche sites that containin the term, like Fox New Latino or The Huffington Post's LatinoVoices or two new magazines: Cosmopolitan for Latinas and Glam Belleza Latina. CNN found the states where Google users searched the most for the term Latino from 2011-2014 were Virginia, California, Texas, Florida, Arizona and New York. The states with the highest Google searches for Hispanic were New Mexico, Texas, District of Columbia, Florida and Arizona. Google searches for Hispanic have declined over the past 10 years, while searches for Latino have remained steady and even seen an uptick in the past two to three years. The only exception each year was during Hispanic Heritage Month. "Groups like Latinos in Social Media and niche Latino sites that have launched recently have a lot to do with Latino being used more than Hispanic, but Latino refers to flavors, people and music. You don't hear people say 'Hispanic music,' they say 'Latino music,' " said Joe Kutchera, author of "Latino Link: Building Brands Online with Hispanic Communities and Content." "Latino media outlets have turned to Latino more because the term feels more inclusive, but that can always change. Younger generations are generally more accepting and don't care as much about these labels," Kutchera added. Such was the case for Lance Rios when he started the popular Latino-based community Facebook page Being Latino. He said he realized Latino held more weight than Hispanic because it was a term embraced within the community. "Twenty years ago Chicanos were Chicanos, and Boricuas were Boricuas but now it's different," Rios said. "Latino encompasses many more who can identify with having parents from different parts of Latin America." Hispanics in the United States: Fast Facts That annoying question: Where are you from? Marco Perez, founder of the United Latino Professionals, has developed a good-natured sense of humor when he is asked a question that many Latinos often hear: Where are you from? Perez said the question doesn't bother him much anymore. "I just say I was born in Guatemala but was raised in New York since I was toddler so I identify myself more with 'American' culture," Perez said. It's clearly not a one-word answer for Perez but not as complicated as some make it out to be. "Their reaction always depends on who it is, their level of education and what part of the country I'm in. But I get reactions such as, 'No, I mean ethnic origin,' but in many cases they simply leave it at an awkward, 'Oh OK,'" Perez said. There are a couple of reasons why this question is irritating to many Latinos. It implies that the person being asked is a foreigner when he or she, or his or her family, could have easily been in the United States for several generations. It also inevitably puts Latinos in a box, making them feel singled out and forced to justify their American-ness. Before I knew any better, the question also made me feel foreign, so I always had my Americana spiel ready to go: "Yes, I'm Peruvian but I was born and raised in New Jersey. And, I went to Rutgers, and watched 'Full House' and 'Saved by the Bell' growing up. I love apple pie and spend Fourth of July weekend down the shore, etc." 'Where are you from?' is not the right question The only time I feel like I'm identifying with the Hispanic or Latino label is when I'm around non-Latinos or filling out the census survey. Living in two worlds With all the "Latino boom" talk, I realized I am a part of the population that isn't just part of the changing face of America but that also is altering its economic landscape. You've heard the statistics: Latinos have a $1 trillion buying power only expected to grow. The Latino vote helped Obama get elected in 2008 and 2012. They're one out of every six people, one out of every four babies born each year. The Hispanic population accounted for more than half of the country's growth in the past decade as well as 95% of the teen population growth through 2020. And, by 2050, Latinos are projected to make up 30% of the U.S. population. That's what Hispanic marketing expert Chiqui Cartagena calls the duality of the Latino reality. "From the grocery aisle where you pick up your Corona beer and your dulce de leche ice cream, to the Billboard charts where Pitbull, Marc Anthony and Jennifer Lopez routinely dominate, to the lunch you order at Chipotle .... the Latino effect is everywhere," wrote Cartagena, the vice president of corporate marketing for Univision Cartagena, in an op-ed for CNN. When companies talk about the Hispanic market, they are referring to the bilingual Latino who has embraced both cultures, eats pizza and tacos, and the growing share of Hispanics who prefer to consume their news in English from television, print, radio and Internet outlets. But Pew also found that most Latinos acknowledge the importance of speaking Spanish and found that more than 34 million Hispanics ages 5 and older spoke Spanish at home, which may be the reason why English and Spanish have influenced each other so much. Fewer Latinos will speak Spanish, more non-Latinos will, report says Language isn't the only aspect of Latino culture to keep in mind when speaking to this growing community in the United States. It's also important to know that Latinos are not a monolithic culture. While a large percentage of the Hispanic market is of Mexican origin, there are still two dozen other nationalities that make up America's Latino population. Also, Latinos come in all shapes, complexions and sizes. Glenda Guevara has little patience for stereotypes these days. "I now take the 'where are you from?' as a teaching moment," said Guevara, who was born in El Salvador. "But I do get furious when I'm told that I can't be from El Salvador because I don't fit the 'look.'" Without completely losing her cool, Guevara continually responds by asking, "What exactly does an El Salvadoran look like? Please tell me what my people should look like?" Latin America's diverse racial demographics are the result of a mixed-race background of European, African and indigenous cultures. All the attention Latinos have gotten over the years has come with its fair share of stereotypes and misconceptions, some I'm able to laugh off and some I wish I could wave a magic wand and change immediately, like: Being asked to say something in Spanish (Nope, I'm not here solely for your entertainment.), to explain where exactly Peru is (Don't admit the little geography you know.), if I know someone you once met in Peru (It's a big country, the chances are impossible.), if I'm a U.S. citizen (That's never, ever appropriate.), and -- my personal favorite -- introducing me to your friend from a Latin American country because you believe we will hit it off. (Common backgrounds don't necessarily mean you are introducing me to my future bestie.) These awkward and often staggering encounters only confirm how ambiguous Latinos' collective identity is to those on the outside. But if waving that wand meant having to alter who I am or how I move seamlessly between two worlds, then I'd hold back. I can only hope that as the Hispanic community continues to grow, so will a more defined identity. Study: Hispanics show increasing cultural, economic and social diversity How do you identify and why? Please share your thoughts in the comments!   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/30/living/duke-you-dont-say-identity/index.html	living	Duke University students on the 'You Don't Say?' campaign - CNN.com	2014/04/30	Wednesday Apr 30 08:47:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- This fall, two student organizations at Duke University met to discuss a simple idea: Put a spotlight on reasons people might take offense to phrases and slurs used in everyday conversation. The result of that conversation -- the "You Don't Say?" campaign, a photo project that points out language that marginalizes sexual and gender minorities -- has been sweeping across the Web and the Durham, North Carolina, campus. It comes in the midst of several photo campaigns at colleges around the country. At Harvard, there was the "I, Too, Am Harvard" photo project that highlights the experience of its black students. In March at Georgetown, images of administrators in drag explored the issue of gender identity. Duke sophomores Daniel Kort, Anuj Chhabra, Christie Lawrence, and Jay Sullivan co-founded the project. Kort is the president of the undergraduate LGBTQ group Blue Devils United, and Chhabra is the president of Think Before You Talk, a group aimed at bringing awareness to the implications of offensive language. Lawrence and Sullivan serve on Think Before You Talk's executive board. The students explained via e-mail why they got involved, and what they hope the photo campaign will accomplish. Their responses have been edited for clarity. Anuj Chhabra on using the phrase 'That's so gay':  I thought it was important to bring awareness to the implications that these words have because having used some of [these phrases] in high school, I quickly realized how differently other Duke students perceived me [when I commented], "That's so gay." One of my friends in particular would constantly question me: "What do you mean by 'That's so gay?'" I realized that using the word "gay" to describe a teacher who I didn't like or an unfavorable event really didn't make sense, and I began to change the habit. Our intention was to use personal testaments to let people personally challenge themselves, as opposed to "banning" these words. Our desire to use the personal "I" stems from the fact that most people, after thinking about why it is so common in today's society to equate something like "dumb" or "unfavorable" with "gay," are quick to change their habits. It is not necessarily homophobic or sexist people using such words and phrases, but largely just ordinary people. Daniel Kort on why he participated:  Throughout elementary and middle school, I was consistently bullied by my classmates because of characteristics that others deemed "gay." I was constantly called "fag" and "bitch." At times, it felt as if my entire class was against me, and I can recall only one instance that somebody stood up for me. I would cry to my mom during the car ride home, and my schoolwork and motivation suffered. With help from the school counselor, I was eventually able to stand up for myself and disregard my bullies. In my first year [at Duke], I was called a "fag" by one of my hall mates in the first month of school. I was lucky to have my friends there to intervene, but I know that not all students are as fortunate. I was motivated by the bystanders who were there for me that night, and this experience propelled my enthusiasm to work on the campaign. Though I don't have the same reaction nowadays in response to these words, I stand in solidarity with younger students who are marginalized by their classmates. Christie Lawrence on how these terms impact her and others:  All of these phrases impact me, whether they directly address me or not. I think it is important to try to be as good of a person as you can, and through conversations with my friends, I have grown to recognize the hurt these words can inflict. Even if I am not gay, I know that calling someone a "fag" or qualifying an expression of admiration with "no homo" attaches hurtful connotations to words that are directly connected to a certain identity. Telling me to "man up" or not be a "pussy" tells me that you believe women are weaker, more emotional and lesser than a man. It tells me that you think a certain way to act is the right way and anything that does not fall under the umbrella of "acceptable" behavior or emotions is something to be put down. This attitude, that there is a correct way to have courage, be successful, or achieve happiness, is something that I believe hurts everyone in our society, including myself. This campaign is not an attempt to ban words or invalidate someone's right to free speech, but instead is an attempt to show how these words are hurtful for many. One comment on an article I read about our campaign explained it very nicely: You have the right to say these offensive phrases, but we also have the right to tell you why we think these phrases are hurtful. Jay Sullivan on how language reflects values:  I am a Christian. That is the lens I bring to all the work that I do in the community here at Duke, in the local Durham community, and in my daily life. When I was in high school, I was the leader of the my school's small Christian Fellowship. I went to a private co-ed prep school in New Haven, Connecticut, called Hopkins School, and I distinctly remember during my junior year during the day of silence I was wearing an ally sticker in support of my friends who were silent. In class that day, an older friend came up to me and said, '"Look, Jay, I respect you but you need to take that ally sticker off man. You're condoning their sinful actions. You can't support them and be the leader of a Christian organization." I was quite taken aback, and after a short dialogue I took off the sticker to avoid any further conflict. That experience bothered me for a while, that I didn't take a stand to tell him, "People are people and they deserve the same rights and freedom to live the way they want that you have, as well. God loves everyone regardless of any part of their identity that you may have deemed sinful or unworthy." This campaign is not about language; it is about what this language represents. The way we talk is a reflection of our beliefs and perceptions of the world and it is vital, at least for me, to examine whether what I say is in line with my values and how I view the world.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/15/living/millennial-inevitability-identity/index.html	living	The myth of millennial inevitability - CNN.com	2014/04/15	Tuesday Apr 15 07:48:08 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Erica Williams Simon is a social impact strategist and World Economic Forum Young Global Shaper. She tweets@ericawilliamsdc.  (CNN) -- The millennial generation is big, diverse and changing the American landscape. A new infographic and book, "The Next America," by Paul Taylor and the Pew Research Center, examines the data about the change. It's revelatory. Taylor calls the demographic transformations "dramas in slow motion." The Gen Y -- or millennial -- generation's lack of religious affiliation, indifference to political parties and strong liberal views are a contrast to previous generations. Additionally, a great deal of the "next" in "The Next America" has to do with racial and ethnic identity. Immigration, intermarriage and the growing percentages of people who identify as mixed race are drastically recoloring the nation's racial tapestry. Today, just a half-century after interracial marriages were illegal in one-third of the states, nearly 1 in 6 newlyweds marry across racial lines. Immigrants and their children are projected to make up about 37% of America's population by mid-century, the highest share in our history. But what does this all mean? There is often a focus on data highlighting the size and diversity of the millennial generation, drawing the conclusion that it is inevitable that our values will soon take over. But research shows other factors are equally important: Our generation's economic insecurity, dependence on our parents and most notably, the unprecedented size of the older generation. I want to challenge the notion of inevitability, that just because we are more diverse, liberal and "huge," millennials will soon win the culture wars and easily transform our society to reflect our values. In my early 20s, as a Gen Y proselytizer and a person of color, I thought I knew exactly what the demographic changes meant: Millennials, in all of our black, brown and liberal glory, were taking over politically. I spent the early part of my career working on progressive policies and cause campaigns geared toward youth and diverse communities. I even founded a program that applied a racial equity lens to public policy development in part because of the country's changing demographics. The unspoken premise was this: Political elites had better "get hip" and start authentically working toward equity. Otherwise, they would be left in the change-making millennial dust. This premise was grounded in what I now call the myth of inevitability. Although I worked hard to increase civic engagement, activism and community involvement amongst my peers, deep down inside, I believed that the odds were in our favor. We would inevitably win the culture wars because of our sheer size and diversity. I believed that increasing our involvement and voice would make the difference of when the United States would be transformed to reflect our values, not if. I was not alone. Others deeply believed this to be true, too. But there are a few important factors that we forgot to consider. First, the country isn't just young and diverse. It is also getting old very quickly. The second major demographic "drama" detailed by Pew is one of older Americans living longer than ever before. Ten thousand baby boomers will turn 65 every single day between now and 2030. For the first time, by 2060, there will be almost as many Americans older than 85 as younger than 5. Thus the joke about "waiting for the older generation to die off" to see our political and social goals realized isn't just crass: It not a realistic path to social change. And that's not all. There are other cultural realities standing in the way of an "inevitable" political takeover. Millennials are economically insecure, politically unaffiliated and, according to Pew, not at all interested in generational warfare. Unlike previous generations, we actually like our parents and grandparents -- perhaps because we're still living with them. Suddenly, revolution doesn't look as inevitable as it once did. But it is still possible. I propose that the value wars that play out on issues such as immigration, women's rights, equality, criminal justice and America's treatment of the poor will be determined by three factors: participation, leadership and systems innovation. Participation in the political process is key. In the research from Pew, it confirms that millennial voting has actually been remarkably solid, increasing and staying strong in presidential elections since 2004. If this continues, adequate political representation should follow. But leading and participating in the system is not enough when the systems are broken, such as the impending doom around Social Security and other programs if left as is. The only way to fix them is to innovate and create them anew. Innovation can come from first learning the ins and outs of the current system, applying creativity and technological prowess to the problems and third, taking the risk to experiment and start enterprises that challenge the status quo if and when necessary. The data about the country's race and age transformation is clear. But millennials will only make a transformational political impact when we take the reins, lead and recreate the United States from the inside out. Now that will be a demographic drama worth watching. Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Erica Williams Simon. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/01/world/asia/malaysia-airlines-plane/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	world	Report: MH370 disappearance a criminal investigation - CNN.com	2014/04/01	Tuesday Apr 1 12:48:29 EDT 2014	Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (CNN) -- The investigation into Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 is now classified as a criminal investigation, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing the Malaysian police chief. Inspector General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar said authorities have already recorded more than 170 statements and will interview more people for the Flight 370 probe, the Journal said. But Bakar cautioned that what happened with Flight 370 might still be unknown after the investigation. He added that the investigation into the flight simulator in the pilot's house is still inconclusive. Authorities are awaiting an expert's report on the simulator, he said. After three and a half weeks, the search for the missing plane has come down to this: a lot of floating rubbish, hundreds of heartbroken relatives and, now, quibbling over words all acknowledge offer no clues into what happened to the doomed plane. Malaysian authorities on Tuesday released the transcript of radio chatter between air traffic controllers and the plane in the hour or so before it vanished while flying from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing on March 8 with 239 people on board. The transcript shows the last voice transmission from the doomed plane was "Good night Malaysian three-seven-zero" -- not the "All right, good night" transmission authorities had previously used. The comments are "exactly what you'd expect" in a cockpit, airline safety expert John Gadzinski told CNN's "The Lead." Still, even if this new transcript offers no clues about the plane's mysterious disappearance, the discrepancy has provided fresh fodder for critics of Malaysia's handling of the investigation. Read the cockpit transcript That authorities gave one version and let it stand uncorrected for weeks undermines confidence in the investigation, air accident investigation experts told CNN. "High criticism is in order at this point," said Mary Schiavo, a CNN aviation analyst and former inspector general for the U.S. Department of Transportation. And Michael Goldfarb, a former chief of staff at the Federal Aviation Administration, added that people following the investigation "haven't had a straight, clear word that we can have a lot of fidelity in." "We have the tragedy of the crash, we have the tragedy of an investigation gone awry and then we have questions about where we go from here," he said. Malaysian officials have defended their work, with acting Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein recently saying, "History will judge us well." Regardless of one's assessment of Malaysia's response, that doesn't change the immense challenge it faces -- especially given the few apparent details on altitude, speed and, of course, location. "They are looking in a vast area in very deep waters, ... and we really have no idea where it went in," Bill Schofield, an Australian scientist who helped create flight data recorders that could be key in determining what happened, told CNN. "... A needle in a haystack would be much easier to find." Inside the flight simulator Search 'could drag on' After refocusing their search Friday to a new patch of Indian Ocean hundreds of miles from where they had been looking, authorities still haven't found anything definitively linked to Flight 370. Ten aircraft and nine ships crisscrossed a 46,000-square-mile (120,000-square-kilometer) search zone on Tuesday. With so many planes in the skies over the search zone, Australia sent an airborne air traffic control plane to guard against accidents. The search zone for Wednesday shifted eastward toward the Australian coast from what it had the day before, according to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority. While this means new territory will be covered, officials caution against expecting an imminent breakthrough. "It will take time," retired Air Chief Marshal Angus Houston, the head of the Australia's new Joint Agency Coordination Centre, said Tuesday. "It's not something that's necessarily going to be resolved in the next two weeks." The plane disappeared over the waters between Malaysia and Vietnam, after signing off with Malaysian controllers, but before checking in with their counterparts in Vietnam. Authorities don't know what happened on board after that, but radar and satellite data show the plane turned off course and flew back across Malaysia before turning south over the Indian Ocean. Based on sophisticated analysis of satellite data, investigators believe it went down in the southern Indian Ocean, but they can't pinpoint a location. A Malaysian government source told CNN on Monday that the airliner's turn off course is being considered a "criminal act," either by one of the pilots or someone else. In a background briefing given to CNN, Malaysian investigators said they believed the plane was "flown by someone with good flying knowledge of the aircraft." A senior Malaysian government official last week told CNN law enforcement analyst Tom Fuentes that authorities have found nothing in days of investigating the two pilots that leads them to any motive, be it political, suicidal or extremist. "It's one of the great mysteries of our time," Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said in a radio interview Wednesday from Perth, where he'll host his Malaysian counterpart Najib Razak later in the day. "...We owe it to the world, we owe it to those families to do whatever we reasonably can do get to the bottom of this." More help on the way Chinese relatives of passengers got a chance Wednesday to learn how the search is unfolding and how it's been concluded that the flight ended in the Indian Ocean. Malaysia Airlines and Malaysia's Department of Civil Aviation led a closed-door briefing with the Chinese kin in Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian government said. Technical experts from Malaysia, China and Australia were also expected to participate, as was the Chinese ambassador to Malaysia. Meanwhile, even more assets are contributing to the search. Hishammuddin tweeted the HMS Tireless, a British nuclear submarine, will take part. It'll be joined by an Australian ship with a pinger locator designed to listen for locator beacons attached to the plane's flight data recorder plus a submersible capable of canvassing the ocean floor for wreckage. Both pieces of technology come from the U.S. Navy. The equipment won't be of any use, however, until searchers are able to find wreckage from the plane to help narrow the search zone. That's because neither the pinger locator nor the submersible can quickly scan the enormous area being searched. Under the best of sea conditions, the pingers can be heard 2 nautical miles away. But high seas, background noise, wreckage or silt can all make pingers harder to detect. It will take the ship, the Ocean Shield, two more days just to get to the search zone, leaving precious little time to locate the flight data recorders before the batteries on its locator beacon run out. Time is running out: The batteries are designed to last 30 days. Wednesday is the 26th day that authorities have been looking for the plane. There's no guarantee it will be found anytime soon. For all the expertise and technology, there's still more unknown about Flight 370 than is known about it -- including its altitude, precise speed and, especially, its final resting place. As CNN aviation analyst Miles O'Brien said: "We're seeing what amounts to a big guess." Families of newlyweds still waiting Ocean Shield: A mission of hope in search for Flight 370 Mystery of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 surfaces pain of 1977 tragedy Michael Pearson reported and wrote from Atlanta; Jim Clancy reported from Kuala Lumpur; CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet, Holly Yan, KJ Kwon, Barbara Starr, Will Ripley, Greg Botelho, Richard Quest, Nic Robertson, Sara Sidner, Mitra Mobasherat, Kyung Lah and Yuli Yang also contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/31/health/africa-ebola/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	health	Ebola toll rises in 'unprecedented' outbreak - CNN.com	2014/03/31	Monday Mar 31 07:42:24 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- An outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever in West Africa has spread to Guinea's capital and beyond its borders in an "unprecedented epidemic," a leading aid agency reported Monday. A total of 122 patients are suspected of contracting Ebola and 78 have died, Doctors Without Borders said. Most victims have been in Guinea, but the World Health Organization reported Sunday that two deaths in Sierra Leone and one in Liberia are suspected to have been caused by the Ebola virus. Cases have been identified in three provinces in Guinea near the borders and in Conakry, its coastal capital, said Mariano Lugli, the Doctors Without Borders coordinator there. "We are facing an epidemic of a magnitude never before seen in terms of the distribution of cases in the country," Lugli said in a statement issued by the organization. Previous outbreaks "were much more geographically contained and involved more remote locations," he said. "This geographical spread is worrisome, because it will greatly complicate the tasks of the organizations working to control the epidemic," Lugli said. The organization, also known by its French name Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) describes Ebola as "one of the world's most deadly diseases." It spreads in the blood and shuts down the immune system, causing high fever, headache and muscle pain. It is rare but creates panic, because there is no cure and it's fatal in up to 90% of cases, according to MSF. The variant seen in the Guinea outbreak is the so-called Zaire strain, which Lugli called "the most aggressive and deadly." READ: What is Ebola and why does it kill?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/01/politics/obamacare-midterms/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	politics	Republicans hit a nerve when it comes to Obamacare - CNN.com	2014/04/01	Tuesday Apr 1 01:13:46 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Republicans are going all in, hoping that the payout is big. Like control of the Senate, big. Their big bet: Obamacare. The deadline to enroll in the Affordable Care Act for the year has come and gone. The Obama administration is touting the enrollment numbers as a successful first year, but Republicans think voter anger over the law is here to stay. And so, Republicans running for House and Senate continue to make it central to their campaign. In the Arkansas Senate race, Republican challenger Tom Cotton is using Obamacare to fund-raise for his race against Democratic incumbent Mark Pryor. The first screen on Cotton's website is a plea for contributions that says, "Obamacare is so bad that Obama doesn't want it. Tell him neither do I." Fund-raising schemes and campaign advertisements are central to Republican races in red and swing states around the country. Republican confidence When Republican David Jolly beat Democrat Alex Sink in Florida's special election for the 13th Congressional District in March, Republicans attributed the win in part to the health care law. "His (Jolly's) victory shows that voters are looking for representatives who will fight to end the disaster of Obamacare," Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus and co-chair Sharon Day said in an email blast to reporters after the results were tallied. The deep-pocketed group Americans for Prosperity is playing in dozens of races around the country, and its sole weapon is Obamacare. "We do want to make sure that Obamacare is the number one issue in the country," Tim Phillips, president of AFP, said in a recent interview. The organization, backed by the wealthy partisans David and Charles Koch, has already spent more than $30 million this election cycle and plans to spend a great deal more to ensure that Democrats "have to explain" their support of the law. Public opinion Republicans believe they have a winning issue, insisting that Americans are opposed to the law. And most polling is on their side. According to the most recent survey conducted just over a week ago by CBS News, 53% of Americans gave the law a thumbs down, compared to 41% saying they approve of it. That's in line with most polls. But that could be starting to change. A Kaiser Family Foundation poll released last week found that the gap between approval and disapproval of the law narrowed to 8 points. And a new Washington Post/ABC poll out Monday found that 49% support the law compared to 48% who don't. Public action While polls are indicative of voter opinion, they don't indicate voter action. What does, however, is enthusiasm, and Republicans have that on their side. In a midterm election, when people are less likely to vote, voter turnout is critical and Obamacare gives Republicans an advantage. "This data pretty clearly shows that even though attitudes regarding the ACA are 'baked in' with voters (68% feel strongly one way or another about the issue), the intensity is clearly on the negative side, as GOP voters clearly dislike the new law more than Democrats are in love with it," said GOP pollster Neil Newhouse, a co-founder of Public Opinion Strategies. Voter apathy is a challenge that Democrats must overcome. Republican strategy: Invoke doubt Republicans are hitting a nerve when it comes to Obamacare. They are appealing to their base's mistrust in the President. Republican Sen. John Barrasso on "Fox News Sunday" alleged the administration is "cooking the books" regarding the program's rollout numbers. This includes the latest number that more than 6 million have enrolled. And Republicans constantly raise questions: Who are the people enrolling and did they have health insurance beforehand? Obamacare was pushed by the President and passed by Congress in 2010 with no Republican support as a way to narrow the gap between those with coverage and the tens of millions without it. White House spokesperson Jay Carney said Republicans are grasping at straws as the law takes hold and people begin to see benefits. "I know it leaves them with the need to go back to the drawing board when it comes to other means of trying to attack a law that is providing opportunity and security to millions of Americans," Carney said. Republican risks Pounding an issue into the ground does bring some risks -- voter annoyance. A Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that 53% of Americans are tired of hearing about the law. Republican pollster Whit Ayers said there's a more powerful factor in voter fatigue: Obama himself. Six years into a President's term, "people get tired of that person's leadership," he said. "Especially this President's." Democrats' challenge The goal is to get Democrats to the polls. Democrats, however, have a more complicated role that consists largely of defense. While they are being attacked on the campaign trail over the law, they have decided to respond in a multipart way by saying that some of the law is great, but some parts need to be fixed. That's exactly what endangered Democrats, including Sens. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and Alaska's Mark Begich, did when they and several colleagues penned an op-ed laying out the parts of the law that they said need to be changed. Rep. Steve Israel, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, an organization that works to elect Democrats to Congress, is fighting back by highlighting the "cost of repeal." The organization is telling stories of people who live in districts with contested congressional races who say they could not afford health coverage without the Affordable Care Act. "Americans do not want to repeal the ACA and go back to the days when insurance companies had free rein over health care; they want it fixed and improved. But this Republican Congress is obsessed with a repeal that will force hardworking families into bankruptcy and let insurance companies deny care and drop coverage," Israel said. It's a difficult way to convince people to turn out to vote, even if public opinion drastically changes in favor of the law. In the March Florida special election in a swing district in a swing state, the only test case analysts have to monitor in the current political climate, Sink embraced only parts of the law. She also talked about what needs to be fixed, a strategy that didn't work. But as of now, Democrats don't want to be talking about it. That's why they are focusing on economic issues such as minimum wage and equal pay for women. New York Sen. Chuck Schumer, who is a member of Senate Democratic leadership, said people aren't focused on Obamacare. "Most Americans want to hear something positive. 'What are you going to do for me?' Republicans are going to give them no answers on that," Schumer said. But former President Bill Clinton said Democrats cautioned against running from the law they championed and passed. "I thought that Democrats had a tendency to shy away from things they had done that were unpopular, (and) talk about positions they had that were popular. And that my own experience had convinced me -- going back to '94 and even more when I was governor -- that that was always a terrible mistake," Clinton said this week. Official: Obamacare on track to meet original goal Five things polls tell us about Obamacare CNN's Political Editor Paul Steinhauser and Chief Congressional Correspondent Dana Bash contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/01/world/europe/ukraine-crisis/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	world	Ukraine crisis: NATO suspends cooperation with Moscow - CNN.com	2014/04/01	Tuesday Apr 1 02:51:48 EDT 2014	Brussels, Belgium (CNN) -- NATO will suspend "all practical civilian and military cooperation" with Russia because of its annexation of Crimea, saying it has seen no sign that Moscow was withdrawing troops from the Ukrainian border. Foreign ministers from the 28 members of the Western military alliance met in Brussels on Tuesday for the first time since Russia grabbed the Black Sea peninsula from Ukraine last month, triggering the worst East-West crisis since the Cold War. They were discussing ways to boost NATO's military presence in formerly communist central and Eastern Europe to reassure allies worried by Russia's moves. After the session, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Russia has challenged truths that only a few weeks ago seemed self-evident: that European borders in the 21st century would not be redrawn by force. "It is important for everybody in the world to understand that the NATO alliance takes seriously this attempt to change borders by use of force," he said. "So that is the wake-up call." Russia's aggression "is the gravest threat to European security in a generation and it challenges our vision of a Europe whole, free and at peace," NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters. In a joint statement announcing the suspension of cooperation, the ministers said political dialogue in the NATO-Russia Council could continue, "as necessary, at the ambassadorial level and above, to allow us to exchange views, first and foremost on this crisis." They said they would review NATO's relations with Russia at their next meeting in June. NATO and Russia have cooperated on an anti-narcotics operation in Afghanistan, counterpiracy and various counterterrorism measures. Rasmussen said cooperation on the anti-narcotics operations would continue. A NATO official told CNN the ministers had decided the alliance would develop, as a matter of urgency, "a series of additional measures to reinforce NATO's collective defenses." These would include possible deployments and reinforcements of alliance military assets in Eastern European member states, a possible review of training and exercise plans in the near term, a possible increase of the readiness level of the NATO Response Force, and a possible review and update of NATO defense and military plans, the official said. Russian troops on border Earlier, Rasmussen said he saw no sign that Russia is pulling its forces back from the border with Ukraine. "Unfortunately, I cannot confirm that Russia is withdrawing its troops," Rasmussen said at the opening of the two-day meeting. "This is not what we're seeing. And this massive military buildup can in no way contribute to a de-escalation of the situation." Concerns are high that Russia, which U.S. officials last week said had about 40,000 troops near the frontier, might seek to enter eastern Ukraine, after it annexed Ukraine's Crimea region last month. Russian President Vladimir Putin told German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Monday that he'd ordered a withdrawal of some Russian troops from his country's border area with Ukraine, Merkel's office said. The news prompted U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki to say Monday that if the reports were accurate, "it would be a welcome preliminary step." On Tuesday, Merkel told reporters: "I can only take what the Russian President has told me. I will, of course, try to find out whether this is perceptible or not perceptible." According to Russian state media Monday, one Russian infantry battalion was being moved from the border area to its base deeper in Russia. A battalion would typically number several hundred troops. But Rasmussen appeared to quash hopes that the situation might be easing with his remarks Tuesday. His assessment was echoed in Brussels by UK Foreign Secretary William Hague, who said: "We have had some statements or rumors from Russia about pulling back forces from the eastern border of Ukraine. "But we haven't seen the evidence of that yet. Of course, we continue to call for that and continue to use every possible diplomatic lead to seek a de-escalation of this crisis." Kerry, among those in Brussels for the NATO meeting, also called for a Russian withdrawal in lengthy weekend talks in Paris with his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov. What do we know about Russia's troop buildup on Ukraine's border? Also Tuesday, the U.S. House gave final congressional approval to legislation that would impose sanctions on Russia for its takeover of Crimea and provide $1 billion in loan guarantees to Ukraine. The bill now goes to President Barack Obama for his signature. In a statement, the White House said the President welcomed the move. "This legislation will allow us to provide crucial support to Ukraine through loan guarantees that will facilitate access to needed financing to Ukraine as it takes essential steps to restore economic stability and return to growth and prosperity," it read. NATO and Ukraine cooperation  The foreign ministers also met with Ukrainian acting Foreign Minister Andriy Deshchytsia in the latest demonstration of Western support. Moscow does not recognize Ukraine's new government, saying President Viktor Yanukovych was removed in an unconstitutional coup. In a joint statement, they called on Moscow "to reverse the illegal and illegitimate 'annexation' of Crimea; to refrain from any further interference and aggressive actions in Ukraine ... and to abide by international law." At the same time, NATO and Ukraine announced they would intensify cooperation and promote defense reforms in Ukraine through training and other programs. Rasmussen told reporters the ministers agreed to help Ukraine make its military "more professional and more effective" and provide advice on how it can defend its infrastructure. "A possibility is also deployment of mobile training teams as and when appropriate," he said. Pressed on how NATO was prepared to help Ukraine improve its military, Rasmussen cited enhanced military exercises as an example. As the talks got under way, Russia's Foreign Ministry had warned Ukraine against seeking integration into the defense alliance. Discussion of the issue while Yanukovych was in power "led to freezing of Russian-Ukrainian political communications, to headaches in the relationship between NATO and Russia and, what is the most dangerous, to the deepening of the split of Ukrainian society, the majority of which doesn't support the idea of Ukraine entering NATO," a Foreign Ministry statement said. It added that Kiev must understand that the prospects for future cooperation between Ukraine and Russia, including on economic matters, "will largely depend on the actions Ukraine takes in its foreign policy." Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula last month amid the political upheaval that followed the ouster of the pro-Moscow Yanukovych. Ukraine's parliament on Tuesday granted permission for foreign military units, including some from NATO countries, to conduct military exercises in Ukraine in 2014. Such military exercises by foreign troops, including naval drills in the Black Sea, are an annual event but take on additional significance this year in light of Russia's military takeover of Crimea. Gazprom hikes natural gas price In a move that will heighten pressure on the interim government in Kiev, Russian energy giant Gazprom announced a sharp increase in the price it charges Ukraine for natural gas. Starting Tuesday, Ukraine will be charged $385.50 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas, up from the previous rate of $268.50, Russian state news agency RIA Novosti quoted Gazprom Chief Executive Alexei Miller as saying. The move ends a discount that was agreed to before Yanukovych was ousted in February after months of street protests. The gas price hike will only increase the pressure on Ukraine's interim government as it seeks to stave off economic collapse. Ukraine, which is heavily reliant on Russia for energy, is also $1.7 billion in arrears in its payments for gas already supplied, Miller said, according to RIA Novosti. The International Monetary Fund last week agreed to lend Ukraine up to $18 billion over the next two years in return for a package of reforms, including to its energy market. Kiev has been running dangerously low on cash to pay for imports and service its debts since the ouster of Yanukovych, which killed off a $15 billion financial lifeline from Russia. Is Crimea gone? Annexation no longer the focus of Ukraine crisis Opinion: Russia's euphoria over Crimea won't last CNN Money: Russia fallout pushes Europe to develop shale gas Susannah Palk reported from Brussels, Laura Smith-Spark reported and wrote from London. CNN's Alla Eshchenko, Victoria Butenko, Boriana Milanova, James Frater, Talia Kayali, Jason Hanna and Marie-Louise Gumuchian contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/31/travel/las-vegas-high-roller-opening/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	travel	Will Caesars impress with Las Vegas High Roller? - CNN.com	2014/03/31	Monday Mar 31 04:21:28 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The 550-foot-tall High Roller has finally opened on the Las Vegas Strip. The High Roller Ferris wheel is part of "the LINQ," a Caesars Entertainment-created shopping and entertainment district. The wheel received its operating license on Friday. Riders will get a 30-minute ride and view of the city in one of two booths in each of the wheel's 28 Italian glass cabins, each 44,000 pounds in weight. Each cabin holds up to 40 people, totally 1,120 people at capacity. Ticket prices range from $24.95 for a standard day ticket to $59.95 for the express that allows you to board anytime without waiting in line. Check out the gallery to see how it compares to other favorites around the world.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/31/showbiz/tv/himym-finale/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	entertainment	'How I Met Your Mother' ends a legendary run - CNN.com	2014/03/31	Monday Mar 31 08:04:07 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- After 208 episodes, countless "legendarys!" and any number of pineapple incidents, slaps and slutty pumpkins, "How I Met Your Mother" came to an end Monday night. Throughout the final season, the show hinted at who the mother is. Still, the nine-year-long story that future Ted Mosby had been telling his kids ended with plenty of surprises. Now that we've said goodbye to Ted and his friends and the hit sitcom that often challenged the conventions (like, say, telling stories in chronological order), let's turn to the cast and the creators as they look back. Kids, here's how they'll remember "How I Met Your Mother." How they knew the show would last Carter Bays (co-creator): When we first started making the show, we had this weird, nave idea that it would run a long time. It was our first show and we didn't really know about how often shows get canceled, but there was always this special feeling about the show, that it would really last a while. Craig Thomas (co-creator): The cast were like, "This is too fun, this is doomed to fail, we can't be allowed to do this for nine years." And we were just stupidly optimistic. It could have failed a few times, but thank God it didn't. Pamela Fryman (director): The pilot was so special, getting to discover who these characters were to become. Whether it's a two-minute date or a song-and-dance number, everything has made me better. If you asked me before if I could do any of those things, I'd probably say no. Josh Radnor (Ted Mosby): I remember feeling that first episode with Ashley Williams, I remember Pam called us into watch that. I remember thinking, "This is a really special show." It does things differently than other shows. It uses so many different styles. We half-intentionally created something new and we hope it will stick around. How much impact guest stars had Bays: Having Britney Spears here was pretty memorable. We were such a garage band show, we were doing OK in the ratings but weren't really on anyone's radar, then suddenly this international superstar parachutes into the set and it was a very bizarre week. Alyson Hannigan (Lily Aldrin): Jennifer Lopez was adorable. She called my little girl a coconut. How they made their favorite episodes Neil Patrick Harris (Barney Stinson): Barney had a big musical number about suits on the 20th Century Fox lot, like an old Gene Kelly musical, I even swung around a lamppost. I loved that episode, plus I got to sing and dance. Cobie Smulders (Robin Scherbatsky): I loved our "Two Minute Date" with Josh and Sarah Chalke. I love anything that involves music. Carter and Craig are so musical. They were in a band together and I was really happy that they brought their musical talent to our show. Hannigan: There was one scene where I was pregnant with my first baby. Marshall was meeting me at the airport and had this marching band play for me and greet me at the airport. It was really awesome. Radnor: I love when you get to see what's in Ted's heart. When he's just really present with someone. I did some great stuff with Cobie this year. I've had a nice parade of co-stars, co-girlfriends for Ted. Everyone brings out something different from me. How they feel about the show's catchphrases Hannigan: I really like "you son of a bitch"... "youuuu son of a beetch." Harris: I like the way Barney uses "legendary," because it's a very loaded word. No one should ever use the word "legendary," because if you're talking in the present tense, you sound kind of pompous. Unless you're Barney Stinson, because he thinks every single thing he does is massive. "This interview right now is legendary. This will be in the Smithsonian!" How they spent nine years Jason Segel (Marshall Eriksen): Watching my co-stars have their children was special. I didn't literally watch the act of giving birth, but it's been special watching them grow up. Smulders: A lot of these people have been here for the whole nine years. We have a family dynamic on our set and I will miss that. Hannigan: I went through both of my pregnancies on the show. Harris: I'm gonna miss "It's Wednesday, we've gotta go to work." Now it's Wednesday, I've gotta get a job. Thomas: We've worked so hard for nine years, we don't have any friends. These nine characters are our friends. Thank God we have each other. How they said goodbye Smulders: We had our last table read and I cried puddles of tears. It's such a good group of people, such a great show. I get to play such a wonderful character. I'm so blessed and I'm sad to say goodbye, but we've been blessed to be on the air for nine years which doesn't happen anymore. Thomas: We're five seconds from crying at any given moment. Segel: I don't want to go out on a limb, but I will. This is potentially the best finale of any show ever ... with the possible exception of the second "Newhart" series.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/01/world/asia/north-south-korea-tensions/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	world	Unmanned drone crashes on South Korean border island - CNN.com	2014/04/01	Tuesday Apr 1 02:00:32 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- An unmanned drone crashed on a South Korean island near its disputed maritime border with the North, the country's defense ministry said Tuesday. The drone crashed on the Baekryeong Island on Monday afternoon, the ministry said -- soon after North and South Korean artillery batteries exchanged hundreds of shells across their western sea border. The South Korean military is investigating. The country's Yonhap news agency, quoting an unnamed government source, said the drone crashed near the western sea border, known as the Northern Limit Line after the artillery exchange -- raising the possibility that it was a North Korean reconnaissance plane. READ: Report: N. Korea fires on South during North's military drills; South responds READ: Report: Koreas exchange fire during North's military exercises  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/01/politics/obamacare-signups-target/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	politics	Obamacare hits goal with 7.1 million sign-ups, President says - CNN.com	2014/04/01	Tuesday Apr 1 07:00:37 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- A last-minute enrollment surge enabled the White House to meet its original sign-up target for the Affordable Care Act, a surprising victory for the Obama administration after a rocky rollout of the program that has become a political hot potato for Democrats and a rallying cry for Republicans. President Barack Obama said on Tuesday that 7.1 million people had signed up on federal or state exchanges for coverage under the health care law now often known as Obamacare. The enrollment period began anemically in October with a faltering federal website and ended with a crush of people trying to beat Monday's deadline to get coverage. Not everyone who has selected a health plan has paid for it yet, officials said. Nevertheless, Obama claimed victory at a White House ceremony, saying the program approved by Congress in 2010 -- with no Republican support and vilified relentlessly by the GOP as government overreach -- has been a force for good. He said it wasn't perfect, acknowledging the early difficulties in selecting a policy on HealthCare.gov, and he predicted more hurdles in carrying it out. But the overall goal of starting to narrow the gap between those with health coverage and those without it has begun, and millions of Americans are embracing it, Obama said. "That's what the (law) is all about, making sure all of us and all our fellow citizens can count on the security of health care when we get sick," he said, noting that the "law is doing what it's supposed to do. It's working." The numbers The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office originally projected the 7 million enrollment target for the October through March period, which was adopted by the administration. Expectations plummeted throughout the fall and into this year after the early website problems, which Obama called "several lost weeks." But signs of a pickup began in late January and continued into February and early March despite a fierce campaign by Republicans to demonize the law as unworkable. Administration officials said an absolute crush of people pushed the program -- Obama's chief domestic accomplishment -- over the finish line at the 11th hour. More than 4.8 million visits were made to HealthCare.gov on Monday alone. Officials stressed that the 7.1 million figure represents only those who signed up for coverage. Those who came in late and encountered technical problems have until mid-April to complete the process. Private insurers are providing the coverage. Health of Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius told an Oklahoma TV station on Monday that insurers were reporting that 80% to 90% had paid so far. The law also includes expanded Medicaid insurance for the poor in many states, but those participants are not part of the sign-up total. The politics Republicans, especially in the House, have waged a nonstop campaign to repeal or roll back the Affordable Care Act, saying it was rammed through Congress without their input and now is another illustration of big government at its worst. They have made it a rallying cry of their fall campaign to expand their majority in the House and reclaim the Senate. It has energized the base, and the issue informs the commentary of potential GOP candidates for president as well. Michael Steel, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in a statement that the law "continues to harm the American people" despite Obama's "victory lap." He said costs are not going down, as Obama contends, and people are losing insurance plans they preferred and small businesses are chafing under the law's requirements. "That's why we must replace this fundamentally flawed law with patient-centered solutions that will actually lower health care costs and help create jobs," Steel said. Democrats on the stump, especially those who voted for it and now find themselves in tight races, have recalibrated their position with Obama's presidency not much help to them with voters overall in their states. But Obama said at the White House that the law is good for the country, regardless of politics, and that the numbers show Americans want it and that it's "here to stay." "I don't get it. Why are folks working so hard for people not to have health insurance? Why are they so mad about the idea of people having health insurance?" he asked. What people think Americans are divided over how they view the law. Last month, 46% said they viewed it unfavorably, down 4 points since January, and 38% said they viewed it favorably, up 4 points over the same time period, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation poll. Those who held unfavorable views cited concerns about costs (23%), opposition to the individual mandate (17%), and concerns about government intrusion (10%). Those with favorable views cited expanded access to health care and health insurance (61%), followed by the perception that it will control health care costs and make it more affordable (10%) and that it will be good for the country (7%). The telephone survey of 1,504 adults was conducted March 11 to 17 and had a sampling error of plus or minus 3 points. Professor Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University, said he was not surprised at the last-minute rush to sign up. "I think the prayer of the conservatives that this would collapse just didn't get answered," he told CNN. "It fills a need." He predicted conservatives would chip away at whatever the number proves to be. "It's all just, some people hate Obama and anything he does," he said. The details The administration did not release details about the numbers, including the number of younger Americans who signed up. That metric is crucial for making the program work economically because premiums from younger, healthier participants are needed to make the program work for older people who use the health care system more. An official briefing reporters on the condition of anonymity said insurance companies were confident the percentage of young people was sufficient for the insurance marketplaces to function properly. Obamacare's primary goal is to reduce the ranks of the 45 million uninsured. Until now, many Americans with pre-existing conditions had to pay sky-high prices for insurance, if they could get any at all. Often, insurers branded them "uninsurable." The surge The administration pulled out all the stops in the final weeks of the enrollment period -- an effort one official equated to a "get out the vote" campaign before an election. Administration officials took to the radio airwaves by participating in 400 interviews, enlisted celebrities and athletes to promote the law, and engaged people on social media. And Obama's interview on the online comedycast "Between Two Ferns" resulted in the so-called Zach Galifianakis effect, resulting in 33 million views of his mock interview with the comedian. The interview with Galifianakis, along with a promotional push from Miami Heat forward LeBron James, were cited by administration officials as two of the most effective components in the push to enroll young Americans on the health care exchanges. The overall effort, the White House said, surpassed their expectations in terms of last-minute sign-ups. By the numbers: The final Obamacare push Republicans hit a nerve when it comes to Obamacare 5 things the polls tell us about Obamacare This article was based on reporting by Jim Acosta in Washington and was written by Kevin Liptak and Tom Watkins. Leigh Ann Caldwell also contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/31/us/washington-landslide/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	us	Washington landslide death toll rises to 24 - CNN.com	2014/03/31	Monday Mar 31 06:44:26 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The grim death toll from the massive landslide in rural Washington rose Monday to 24 people, and the discovery of three more bodies means the list of those confirmed killed likely will rise soon, authorities said. The Snohomish County Medical Examiner's Office released the names of 18 of the victims and said it is working to identify the other six people. Four-month-old Sanoah Huestis was the youngest of the 18 victims who were identified. The oldest was 71. The three bodies found Monday were discovered in the 640-acre debris field left after a massive landslide nine days ago, Snohomish County Executive Director Gary Haakenson said. They will not be added to the number of confirmed dead until they are identified and their families notified. Twenty-two people are now listed as missing, down from 30 earlier in the day, Haakenson said. At least 16 of the people on the unaccounted for list went missing on the same road. Also Monday, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee requested that President Barack Obama issue a major disaster declaration for the area. The governor asked for help with housing, funeral expenses and other disaster-related personal expenses, and unemployment insurance for those who lose their jobs as a result of the mudslide. "Words cannot describe the devastation done to the community of Oso and the impact the landslide continues to have in Darrington, Arlington and neighboring communities," Inslee said in a news release announcing the request. On March 22, a rain-saturated hillside along the north fork of the Stillaguamish River gave way, sending a square-mile rush of wet earth and rock into the outskirts of the town of Oso in Washington's North Cascade Mountains. Each day hundreds of searchers and dogs go through the muck looking for bodies, though some cling to hope someone might be found alive. Steve Harris, the supervisor for the search team on the eastern side of the slide, said that about four to six times per day, someone gets a "hit" on what may be a body or body part in the debris. He said identification is difficult and takes time. The slide was so powerful it crushed a lot of what was in its path. Cars were compacted to the size of a refrigerator, he said. He said the debris is 70 feet thick in some places, with an average of 30 feet over the disaster zone. Searchers are also looking at areas on the periphery to make sure nothing is overlooked, he said. "There's still a lot of work to do," Harris said. Monday's weather was kind to the search teams and allowed some areas to drain the water from recent rains. Workers are also using pumps 24 hours a day to remove water that has made the search difficult. Residents unite to help landslide victims  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/31/opinion/begala-obamacare-benefits/index.html?eref=rss_mostpopular	opinion	Begala: I got a better deal through Obamacare - CNN.com	2014/03/31	Monday Mar 31 08:23:55 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Paul Begala, a Democratic strategist and CNN political commentator, was a political consultant for Bill Clinton's presidential campaign in 1992 and was counselor to Clinton in the White House. He is a consultant to the pro-Obama Super PAC, Priorities USA Action. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- I signed up for health care through the Affordable Care Act last week. I did so for one reason and one reason only: it was a good deal for my family. In fact, it was a better deal than we were getting before the ACA. The website, which received so much (well-deserved) negative publicity when it failed to launch, is now easy-peasy. The options it generated for us were more clearly delineated than those we'd been given in the past by a private-sector insurance broker. The benefits were plainly spelled out, as were the deductibles and co-pays. We are fortunate in that we do not need subsidies, and yet the Obama exchange still found us a better deal than we had found on our own. Let me be clear: this was not a political statement. This is my family's health. If I got the best care by going through Sarah Palin's website I would do so. Besides, the business decisions in our family are made by my wife, who has both an MBA and a Masters in Public Administration. I haven't had a checkbook since the Reagan administration, but because this decision was so personal and consequential, we made it as a team. In the end, it was not a tough choice. On the one hand, we got better coverage under the ACA. On the other, it cost less. I'm not exactly a believer in Republican talking points, but even I was surprised at how obviously superior my choices are under the new law. I knew there were no death panels, and I figured a plan originated by Newt Gingrich, the Heritage Foundation and Mitt Romney couldn't truly be Marxist. But I hadn't taken the time to do the math to figure whether the ACA would be a better deal for me. It is. The federal health exchange served me better than the private sector had. So I signed up. My doc is still my doc. My insurance company is still a private corporation - not (gasp!) a government agency. (Although I'd sign up for Medicare today if they'd let me; the government-run health insurance program for seniors is terrific.) Bottom line is, the ACA works, period. And here's the beauty part: even if you choose not to use the exchanges at all, you stand to benefit from the Affordable Care Act. If you or someone in your family has a pre-existing condition, you are a winner under the ACA. Ditto if, God forbid, you have an illness or an accident that would have maxed-out your pre-Obamacare coverage limit: the ACA outlaws coverage caps. If you're a young adult who can now be covered on your parent's plan till age 26, or a Medicare patient who needs preventive care or has fallen into the Donut Hole, you come out ahead too. Mitch McConnell: Another view on Obamacare All of those rights -- and more -- would disappear if the Republicans repealed the Affordable Care Act. The Republican-controlled House has voted 54 times to do just that. Despite spending millions on ads, the right is losing the debate. The latest Kaiser Family Fund poll shows that, even though the new health care law is still not popular, 59% of Americans want to keep the ACA as-is or modify it slightly. Only 18% want to repeal it altogether, and another 11% want to repeal it and replace it with a GOP alternative. As more and more Americans actually deal with health reform firsthand, as they actually receive new rights and new benefits, and as the parade of right-wing horribles fails to materialize, I suspect support for the ACA will continue to grow. As one of the millions of Americans who benefits from the ACA, I just want to say thanks, President Obama. And thank you, Nancy Pelosi, Harry Reid and everyone in Congress who voted for the Affordable Care Act. (Obviously, each person's individual situation is unique. It may well be that some folks will not share my positive experience. But you have nothing to lose by checking it out.) Thanks also to all the Republicans who voted for it. Wait, there weren't any. That's okay, I suppose. There were no Republicans who voted for the Clinton Economic Plan in 1993, and it led to balanced budgets and 23 million new jobs. The Republicans of that time predicted doom and depression if the Clinton Economic Plan passed. Their successors are predicting the same about the Affordable Care Act. And they're going to look just as foolish in the eyes of history. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/opinion/brazile-angelou/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Maya Angelou: The definition of a phenomenal woman - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 03:06:38 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Donna Brazile, a CNN contributor and a Democratic strategist, is vice chairwoman for voter registration and participation at the Democratic National Committee. She is a nationally syndicated columnist, an adjunct professor at Georgetown University and author of "Cooking With Grease: Stirring the Pots in America." She was manager for the Gore-Lieberman presidential campaign in 2000. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- I lost a friend and mentor today. Maya Angelou was the voice of three generations. Her poetry spanned our journey, chronicled our hearts and documented our struggles as we moved from the orations of Martin Luther King to the presidency of Barack Obama. "Dr." Maya Angelou was a phenomenal woman. A rousing spirit, a joyful soul. A remarkable and gifted writer, a trailblazer, an activist, a mother. A hero. She was a woman who cooked up greens that could move you to dance. And yes, she danced, she loved to move. And she moved us all. She loved her black skin and her hair. Growing up in the South, I learned to love my own skin and hair just as she taught us to. But Maya was not stuck on color or gender or religion or sexual orientation. She was fixated on humanity and helping to bring love and kindness into this world. That's perhaps what I cherish about her the most: Like every great artist, she emerged from deep and sorrowful struggle to reveal a beautiful, confident, calm and wise soul. She used that struggle to transform herself and made us believe that we, too, could transform ourselves as well. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/opinion/granderson-maya-angelou/index.html	opinion	Opinion: How Maya Angelou gave me life - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 02:40:02 EDT 2014	Editor's note: LZ Granderson is a CNN contributor, a senior writer for ESPN and a lecturer at Northwestern University. He is a former Hechinger Institute fellow and his commentary has been recognized by the Online News Association, the National Association of Black Journalists, and the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association. Follow him on Twitter @locs_n_laughs. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- I never had the chance to meet Maya Angelou. But she has been in my life all along. In some of my darkest moments, her prose was a lit candle. When I felt alone, her words were my company. The times when I saw the glass ceiling hovering over my career, suffocating my joy, turning my hard-fought acceptance of my truth into a self-loathing cage from which I saw no escape, Maya Angelou came to me and said she knew why I sing. As much as she is known as a great defender of women's rights and lyrical curator of the black experience, I found so many of her words transcended the plight of any one particular group. She was so adept at linking us all through the human condition. I know I'll never be as good a writer as she was. But it's because of the effect her gift continues to have on me that I continue to try. I never had the chance to meet Maya Angelou. But her poem "Phenomenal Woman" found me. Hiding. Scared. Frozen in my seat decades ago when a well-meaning English teacher asked me to read a few stanzas out loud. A teenage boy is not supposed to say such things. A closeted teenage boy may be found out. Filled with anxiety, I abruptly refused and after a look, the teacher moved on, picking another student. But Maya Angelou stayed right there with me. "Phenomenal Woman" stayed right there with me. The images of the words resting in the recesses of my mind, until saying "I'm a woman / Phenomenally. / Phenomenal woman, / That's me" no longer threatened to define or paralyze me. Instead, when I finally had the courage, I found her words liberated me from the arbitrary rules of gender normality and my own internalized homophobia. I don't think I've ever shared that story with anyone before. Even as I was writing that passage, I was acutely aware that some readers will mock me for this disclosure. And it's because of Maya Angelou that I remember a USA Today interview and I smile at this prospect. The article, written about her 80th birthday, touched on her rape at 7 by her mother's boyfriend. He was later murdered by her uncles. She stopped talking to anyone but her brothers for five years because she felt responsible for his death. She told USA Today what her grandmother said about her silence: "'Sister' -- she called me sister -- 'Momma don't care what other people say about you. Momma knows when you and the Lord are ready, you goin' to be a teacher.'" The financial despair of newspapers, the decline of the neighborhood bookstore, the drop in book sales all suggest that the written word has lost its value. While it is true that electronic media have changed the vessel, that should never be mistaken for a decline in the value of the cargo it carries. Whether it be on a page of a magazine, a handwritten note or an e-mail, the power of the written word is still an inescapable force that can wound or heal. Deceive or reveal. Disregard or save. Maya Angelou: Some of her most powerful speeches Consider the last thing Maya Angelou wrote: "Listen to yourself and in that quietude you might hear the voice of God" -- a tweet that is every bit as clear as any line found from her 1971 collection, "Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'fore I Die." I never had the chance to meet Maya Angelou. But when I needed encouragement, she came to me. In poems and in the songs of her album "Miss Calypso." She came to me through the familiar smell of aged paper that erupts from a book that hasn't been opened in quite a long time. She came to me when I met a subtle, homophobic slight at the office with a smile and knowing look that said, "You may write me down in history / With your bitter, twisted lies, / You may trod me in the very dirt / But still, like dust, I'll rise." I never had the chance to meet Maya Angelou. Not in this life anyway. But her words have always been a constant companion to me and I pray they will remain so until the day our two souls meet. And on that day I will say to her with tears in my eyes, "Hello, dear friend." Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/opinion/bergen-obama-doctrine-smart-power/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Obama says goodbye to American hubris - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 03:00:59 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Peter Bergen is CNN's national security analyst, a director at the New America Foundation and the author of "Manhunt: The Ten-Year Search for bin Laden -- From 9/11 to Abbottabad."  (CNN) -- What is the Obama Doctrine? As the President put it Wednesday, "Just because we have the best hammer does not mean that every problem is a nail." The Obama Doctrine, as outlined by the President at the commencement ceremony at West Point, can be summarized as limiting the use of American power to defending the nation's core interests and being smart enough to avoid the temptation to use such power when it embroils the country in costly mistakes such as the decision to invade Iraq. Obama was attempting to answer a central question: What strategic doctrine should guide U.S. actions in a world where America's long war against core al Qaeda and its Taliban allies is winding down, at the same time that Russia and China are both flexing their muscles and when a number of al Qaeda affiliates in countries such as Syria are enjoying something of a resurgence? The President's answer is the foreign policy equivalent of medicine's Hippocratic oath "first do no harm." Without directly saying so, it amounts to a cautious but firm repudiation of the decisions made by presidents such as George W. Bush and Lyndon Johnson, who ordered massive commitments of American military power against perceived enemies. A foreign policy of judicious restraint that doesn't sacrifice core American interests is not the sort of foreign policy that lends itself well to emotional rhetoric. But that's exactly Obama's point; it is American hubris and overreach since World War II in wars such as Vietnam and Iraq that cost the nation dearly in blood and treasure, while doing little to protect America's core interests. But the President also said that the United States reserved the right to take unilateral military action when standing up for core American interests, which he defined as "when our people are threatened, when our livelihood is at stake or when the security of our allies is in danger." What does the Obama Doctrine mean in practice? In cases where there is no core American interest at stake, but where there are issues of concern to the global community, the President says the United States should lead multilateral efforts to resolve them. An example of this -- which, interestingly, the President didn't cite in the speech -- was the 2011 American-led intervention to topple Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi to prevent him killing large numbers of his own civilians, an effort that both NATO and the Arab League led. The Obama Doctrine means more money for U.S. Special Forces. While Special Forces occupy only a tiny percentage of the American defense budget, they are the tip of the spear when it comes to partnering with countries that have some kind of al Qaeda presence and enabling local forces to go after such groups.   At West Point, Obama announced that he would go to Congress to seek a new $5 billion fund for counterterrorism training efforts in countries in North Africa and Asia, an effort that will be led by Special Forces. This dovetails with what Adm. William McRaven, commander of U.S. Special Operations Command, has pushed for over the past year or so -- a greater Special Forces presence in many countries around the world to partner with host nations and train them to fight al Qaeda affiliates or other groups aligned with al Qaeda's ideology. In Syria, the Obama Doctrine means working with Turkey and the Gulf countries such as Saudi Arabia to increase funding and other kinds of assistance to the more moderate elements of the Syrian opposition and also to identify extremist groups better to make sure aid is getting to the right groups. On Iran, the Obama Doctrine means continuing negotiations with the Iranian regime to modify its nuclear program, where the President sees that "for the first time in a decade, we have a very real chance of achieving a breakthrough agreement -- one that is more effective and durable than what would be achieved through the use of force." It also means closing the Guantanamo prison camp since, after all, the indefinite detention of prisoners doesn't fit with American ideals. Over the past year the Obama administration has made some quiet progress on that front, releasing two Algerians and three Chinese Uyghur prisoners. A further six of the remaining 154 prisoners in Gitmo will also soon be transferred to Uruguay. But will the Obama Doctrine be seen as the right strategy to guide American foreign policy for many years in the future? To answer that question it is worth examining what strategies have guided American foreign policy since the defeat of the Nazis almost seven decades ago. The holy grail of American foreign policy makers is to establish a national security strategy (or doctrine) that deals with the real threats that the United States faces as they change over time. But coming up with such a strategy that actually informs effective policies is relatively rare. Since World War II there have been two doctrines that could be described as more or less unalloyed successes. At the dawn of the Cold War, George Kennan established the doctrine of "containment," which attempted to block Soviet expansionism through a combination of American political and economic efforts that included the establishment of U.S.-led institutions such as NATO, the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Sometimes containment also meant that the United States fought proxy military conflicts with the Soviets, such as the Vietnam War, where the two superpowers backed different sides in a civil war. The intent of this strategy was to contain the Soviets, and yet, at the same time, to avoid becoming embroiled in an outright war that might end with mutually assured destruction. Containment succeeded brilliantly because ultimately the Soviet Union imploded of its own internal contradictions without a shot being fired in what could have become an Armageddon-like U.S.-Soviet nuclear war. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Gen. Colin Powell came to be associated with the "Powell Doctrine," which was a response to the Vietnam War debacle. The Powell Doctrine was to go in at the beginning of a war with overwhelming forces to achieve clearly defined political objectives -- and then to end the conflict without getting bogged down in a lengthy occupation. The classic example of the Powell Doctrine in practice was the 100-hour war the United States waged against Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein in 1991, which defeated the Iraqi army that had occupied Iraq's neighbor Kuwait, and did so with relatively few American casualties. Following the 9/11 attacks, came the Bush strategy of the war on terror that was the basis for the U.S.-led coalition's successful overthrow of the Taliban in Afghanistan. But after that it also became the basis for the unnecessary and costly war against Hussein. As a strategy the war on terror can hardly be judged a success alongside containment or the Powell Doctrine. So how might history judge the Obama Doctrine? The doctrine will not satisfy some of Obama's critics, who want him to "do more" on issues such as Russia's intervention in Ukraine. But it does dovetail neatly with where a large majority of Americans are right now. They have no appetite for any more land wars. According to a CNN poll in December, the 13-year war in Afghanistan has become arguably the most unpopular in American history. What Obama did in his West Point speech was to chart a course that balances two natural, and contradictory, American national security impulses -- isolationism and interventionism -- and points to a hybrid approach that avoids some of the pitfalls of either of these strategic approaches. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/justice/aaron-hernadez-double-homicde-arraignment/index.html	crime	Aaron Hernandez prosecutors: Nightclub bump led to double homicide - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 02:46:44 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- An accidental bump at a nightclub preceded the 2012 double homicide allegedly committed by then-New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez, an assistant district attorney alleged Wednesday during Hernandez's arraignment in the case. Hernandez pleaded not guilty Wednesday to two counts of first-degree murder and other charges in the July 2012 killings of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado. Hernandez, 24, who also is awaiting trial in connection with the 2013 slaying of Odin Lloyd, was indicted in the 2012 case earlier this month. Authorities say Hernandez fatally shot de Abreu and Furtado and shot and wounded a third person after the victims had left Boston's Cure Lounge on the early morning of July 16, 2012. At Wednesday's arraignment, Assistant Suffolk District Attorney Patrick Haggan told the court that Hernandez didn't know the victims before that night, and that Hernandez became agitated when de Abreu accidentally bumped into him while Hernandez stood at the edge of a dance floor at the lounge.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/africa/egypt-presidential-election/index.html	world	Polls close amid low turnout in Egypt presidential vote - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 03:04:48 EDT 2014	Egyptians, do you plan to vote in the presidential election? Tell us why or why not. (CNN) -- Polls finally closed in Egypt's presidential election Wednesday, and workers have started to count the ballots, according to Egyptian state media. An extra day of voting was added to boost turnout, but it may have done little, according to CNN crews who witnessed no lines at polling places throughout Cairo. The election, initially scheduled for Monday and Tuesday, pit former army chief Abdel Fattah al-Sisi against Hamdeen Sabahy. The election commission extended the voting saying people living far from where they are registered need to return to vote, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. No numbers have been released, but the move came after TV hosts had openly criticized voters for not participating. Both Candidates had criticized the extra day of voting and had filed complaints. "We strongly denounce the (election commission's) decision to extend voting another day. Extending the voting period for no real plausible reason will open the door to possible vote violations and rigging," said Hussein Abdel Ghany, a top adviser to Sabahy. Sabahy's campaign announced Wednesday that it's withdrawing its delegates who observe the polls because they have been arrested or assaulted: "In the past 48 hours we were subjected to a wide range of abuses, assaults and violations. These include preventing campaign delegates from entering the polling stations, and assaulting and arresting them," it said in a statement. Egyptian Prime Minister Ibrahim Mehleb had even declared Tuesday a public holiday "in compliance to citizens' wishes," state TV reported. The decision was thought to be a move to increase turnout. Human Rights Watch said Egypt's 10-month-long crackdown on the opposition undermined the fairness of the presidential elections. "The mass arrests of thousands of political dissidents, whether Islamist or secular, has all but shut down the political arena and stripped these elections of real meaning," the group's Middle East director, Sarah Leah Whitson, said in a statement Wednesday. The election was called because President Mohamed Morsy was removed from power in July in a popular military coup. Al-Sisi, who was army chief at the time, stepped down from his military post this year to run for president.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/sport/football/football-world-cups-stickers/index.html	iSport	Brazil 2014: Got, Got, Need -- how stickers took the World Cup by storm - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:43:34 EDT 2014	Join the World Cup conversation at CNN Facebook Pulse (CNN) -- Obsession often brings joy and sorrow in equal measure. Inside that thin, shiny packet giving off a mystical glow sits five stickers -- five faces of five men whose very presence can turn lives upside down. Great @OfficialPanini haul yesterday! Shopkeep even chucked in a loose 20 he had! #gotgotneed pic.twitter.com/ySTbYERVcM Welcome to the world of World Cup sticker collecting. "My girlfriend gave me an ultimatum the other day, her or the football stickers? Shame really, I thought she was the one," Daniel Blazer, a British collector, told CNN. While most relationships survive the sticker phase, Blazer is not alone in his infatuation with the shiny adhesives which smile back at those dreaming of the holy grail -- the full sticker album. Some are relentless in their pursuit of that holy grail, setting up spreadsheets and even calling in their spouse to increase the odds of successful swapping. "My husband, Stephen, is obsessed with his sticker album," Emma Conway, who blogs under the name of brummymummyof2, told CNN. "He has his own spreadsheet so he knows what he needs and what he doesn't. It does get annoying. "Every time I go near a shop I have to get my three-year-old daughter some stickers and then get some for my 31-year-old husband. "He's a fantastic dad to our two children but I think the opportunity to collect stickers reminds him and his friends of being kids. "When I go to work, he gives me his swaps, and I swap them with my colleagues and then bring them back. "I'm like a drug dealer...but with stickers." Panini, the Italian company which creates the stickers, has been producing the iconic adhesives for the world's biggest football tournament since 1970. Based in Modena, but with subsidiaries across the globe, Panini can produce over 25 million packets of stickers a day -- that's over 750 million individual stickers. The company, which has a partnership with FIFA, the world's governing body, has exclusive rights to create products for the tournament. Sold in 100 countries worldwide, the phenomenon has become synonymous with the World Cup, which is held every four years. Insider peek at @figurinepanini @PaniniTurkiye @OfficialPanini production of #Wcstickers #gotgotneed pic.twitter.com/0QJvIN7eDy "I was very addicted when I was younger," Gabriel Perlaza, from Austin, Texas, told CNN, of his sticker obsession. "All we would do in recess was trade stickers. I'd also go downtown to the street vendors with my father or grandfather. They had drawers full of stickers and would sell them for different prices individually. "Looking back, it's just crazy how stickers would just take over and be all that mattered for those couple of months leading up to the World Cup. "Even now, at the age of 32, when I stop by the store and buy five packets, I can't wait to get home and open them up," added Perlaza. A quick glance at Twitter, Gumtree and other social media sites, provides a glimpse into the level of addiction that is currently gripping the world. The hashtag #gotgotneed -- named after the phrase "got, got need" -- is usually uttered during a sticker swapping session and it's now one of the most prevalent on Twitter. Be it on street corners or pubs and cafes, collectors trade at every opportunity, holding swapping sessions and allowing doubles to be discarded for the stickers which have so far proved elusive. Cesare Prandelli pos con su cromo de Panini pic.twitter.com/bgQYv7zkBP "I'm not at peace with myself if I can't get my hands on a Panini album before the World Cup," said Bernt-Erik Haaland, who lives in Norway. "It's a really important part of the whole experience, especially the 'getting ready' and build up part to the tournament. "It's also a really sociable thing to do because you can swap stickers with your friends." The internet has provided a whole new dimension to the World Cup sticker craze. Stickermanager.com is just one website which collectors can turn to in an effort to find each and every one of the 640 stickers. Created for the 2006 World Cup in Germany, it now boasts 140,000 registered members who swap stickers online with fellow collectors around the world. But swapping stickers in the post can be treacherous -- corners can get folded, faces can be blemished and your reputation can be ruined. Even within the safety of the home, keeping stickers in perfect condition can be hazardous. "We have a three-year-old girl and a one-year-old boy at home," Conway said. "My daughter loves the stickers and is always trying to peel them out of the book. "My husband is a very mild mannered man but if the kids go near the stickers then he'll raise his voice. He's very protective." Keeping your stickers in mint condition is crucial in maximizing your ability to swap. Today's #worldcup sticker packet - need any of these beauties? 1st person to tweet us with #gotgotneed wins them! pic.twitter.com/1UpvhQ5ch0 According to Stickermanager, the most popular sticker people are looking to collect is Jordi Alba, the Spain and Barcelona defender along with the German national logo in all its shiny glory. But forget about swapping Gianluigi Buffon -- everybody appears to have the Juventus and Italian goalkeeper in their collection. Every collector has a nemesis -- just ask Phil Smith, an avid collector from Sunderland. He is starting to feel he is being stalked by Cameroon's Alex Song. "Song has swiftly become the scourge of my existence," said Smith. "Collecting stickers was an attempt to try and reconnect with my childhood and an innocent love of the game. "Alex has totally sucked the whole fun out of the whole process, though. I have five of him now, and there appears to be no end in sight "The prospect of swapping him for someone exotic or essential to my collection is long gone. His five faces are destined to sit on top of my record player for eternity, symbolically gathering dust. "For many, 2014 will be the summer of Samba, football, flair and joy. For me, it will be the summer of Alex Song." One man took his love for stickers to a whole new level. Adam Caroll-Smith, a Portsmouth fan, stumbled upon his 1996 Premier League sticker album in 2012 and was left devastated to find he was still missing six players. The 29-year-old, who chronicles his quest to complete his collection in his book, "Six Stickers: A journey to complete an old sticker album", traveled far and wide to meet the players who he had failed to find in those hundreds of packets. His journey proved successful, meeting the six former Premier League footballers and completing the book, before tossing the album into the sea in an act he describes as "cathartic." "At the time, I was coming up to 30, getting married, having a child and it felt like a natural point to take stock of my life," Carroll-Smith told CNN. "I think for a lot of people, that plays a part in the obsession. It allows them the opportunity to wallow in the excitement of their childhood. "I think stickers are a metaphor for that -- they are something with a beautiful simplicity. "When you're a kid, it's a chance to flash your football allegiance and gives you tangible proof to show how into football you are. "Now, it gives a bizarre and nostalgic feel. I guess it's because it's something rooted in a particular era and has a timeless quality about it." Such is the universal appeal of the product that Panini says in total it will sell 239,000 km of stickers - enough to stretch into space. "Panini has the ability to create nostalgia galore amongst our 'second generation' collectors," Jessica Tadmor, head of marketing at Panini UK, told CNN. "The media plays a large part. We've had radio DJ's collecting live on air, TV programs featuring the collection, and Twitter going sticker crazy. "There have even been secret midnight swapping conventions in London aided by a beer or two." 100 sobres y no me encontr #BadLuckCampbell pic.twitter.com/Mwj5MhSkJV Even the players are at it -- Costa Rica striker Joel Campbell, who was so desperate to find a sticker of himself that he bought a hundred packets. But after opening each packet, he was left seething after failing to collect his own picture -- unlike his Costa Rica teammate, Bryan Ruiz. Que difcil imitar la cara de concentracin antes de un partido!! #lbumpanini La postal que me sali hoy  pic.twitter.com/iXh8OLs431 The craze is set to continue when the tournament kicks off in Sao Paulo on June 12 with Brazil hosting Croatia in the opening fixture. Conway is already resigned to losing the attention of her husband, Stephen, for the duration of the tournament -- even if he's finished his sticker album by then. "I won't exist once it all starts," she jokes. "We've been together 10 years so I know exactly what to expect and I'm sure he'll try to get the kids watching with him. "His brother is going to Brazil so he's got a bit of envy but he'll be watching all the games. "And he'll be making sure the kids don't go anywhere near the stickers too!"  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/business/varosha-famagusta-one-square-meter/index.html	iBUSINESS	Can eco-city plans bring Cypriot ghost town back to life? - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 11:42:40 EDT 2014	One Square Meter explores the leading architectural designs, city plans and demand for property investment in emerging markets. Join CNN's John Defterios as he visits some of the world's most dynamic cities for an insight into the fast-paced world of real estate development. (CNN) -- In 1974 the Mediterranean island of Cyprus was divided in two. A coup backed by the Greek government was met with a Turkish military invasion, partitioning the country between the Turkish-Cypriot north and Greek-Cypriot south. One of the most enduring symbols of the divide remains the resort of Varosha, an abandoned district of the ancient city of Famagusta that has come to act as a no-man's-land between north and south. Controlled by the Turkish military, the area's glistening beaches and apartment blocks remain off-limits to non-military personnel. At its peak, Varosha had 25,000 residents and 12,000 hotel rooms, attracting guests from across Europe and the Middle East. Today, all lie empty and in a state of disrepair. "It was one of the centers of tourism of the Mediterranean Sea," laments Oktay Kaylap, the Turkish Cypriot mayor of Famagusta. "It used to be very palatial but now it's for neither Greek nor Turkish Cypriots." A group of Famagusta residents and Varosha citizens in exile hope to change that. New York based film-maker, Vasia Markides, whose Greek-Cypriot mother was forced to leave Varosha, has founded the Famagusta eco-city project -- a grass roots movement led by citizens from both communities. Their goal is to rebuild the city and transform the resort-town into a cultural, economic and environmental hub that can generate its own energy from renewable sources and grow its own food. Although the idea is still in the embryonic stages, Markides has been encouraged by the early response from both Greek and Turkish Cypriots. Greek Cypriot mayor, Alexis Galanos, and Turkish Cypriot mayor, Oktay Kaylap -- who both have equal standing and recognize each other's positions -- pledged to work together towards a future Famagusta metropolis and to form a joint committee to that effect in December last year. CNN tried to contact Alexis Galanos for interview on the Varosha project but he was unavailable. Markides even ventures that the regeneration plans could help get the local economy moving again after the difficulties of recent years. "Because of the economic crisis people were found in a very desperate, difficult situation and now I think more than ever they are willing to compromise and let go of the past in order to build the future together," Markides said. "The eco-city would actually be a really good economic boost for the island because it will bring in a new kind of tourism, high value tourism (and) eco-tourism which didn't exist 40 years ago," she added. So far, a number of willing technical experts have been recruited to the Varosha revival cause. Professor Jan Wampler is a recognized specialist in sustainable architecture. He and graduate students from the University of South Florida have completed design "phase one" for the eco-city. "I am very optimistic," Wampler said. "Something has to be done. In this world you can't have so called ghost cities sitting there for 40 years just completely vacant." "In this case we have a golden opportunity. In fact I consider it to be the perfect prototype for what the world might follow in the future," Wampler added. Energy expert George Lordos, echoed this enthusiasm. "Famagusta will be the first thing that happens on the ground if there is a comprehensive settlement (between Greek-Cypriot and Turkish-Cypriot communities)," Lordos said. "The principles of peace, sustainability and permaculture, these are the main principles of the eco-city project," he added. For now, Varosha remains sectioned-off from the outside world by armed guards and miles of wire fences. But Lordos is confident a solution to the decade's long stand-off can be found -- an opinion shared by Cypriot president, Nicos Anastasiades, who said Cyprus' new deep-sea energy resources could help unite the island when talking to CNN last month. "If and when that happens we need to be able to take advantage of redeveloping Varosha as a sustainable destination for tourism," Lordos said. Famagusta and former residents of Varosha stand ready to act. Read more: Will Hollywood stars move downtown? Read more: Forest in the sky to transform Milan Read more: World's best skyscraper is...  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/11/12/business/looking-for-an-emerging-market-airline-routes/index.html	iBUSINESS	How new airline routes are reshaping the world - CNN.com	2013/11/12	Tuesday Nov 12 10:38:23 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Perhaps nothing illustrates the ambitions of the well-established Gulf carriers -- Emirates, Etihad and Qatar -- and Turkish Airlines so much as the swift expansion of their route networks. Turkish Airlines currently flies to about 190 destinations, and plans to add another 60 to its network in the next five years. Emirates, meanwhile, is rumored to have placed a record-breaking order for Boeing's 777X aircraft. "These carriers have a good modern fleet and can fly long distances, and because of their geographical position, they can connect anywhere from their hub to almost anywhere else in the world, either non-stop, or one-stop," says John Strickland, an independent transport consultant. When it comes to choosing what routes to launch, it happens that the region's major carriers have a carefully calculated strategy that can speak volumes about emerging markets. Slideshow: How drones will change your life Breaking up America? Traditionally, the United States has been overlooked in favor of the European market by the Gulf carriers and Turkish. All that's changing as Etihad, Emirates, Qatar and Turkish Airlines all either introduced direct routes to the States last year, or else have some in the works for 2014. "They're really starting to shake up the U.S. market for the first time," says Brendan Sobie, a spokesperson for the Center for Aviation. Last year, Dubai launched a direct flight from New York City to Milan -- the first time in the airline's history a flight bypassed the Dubai hub (last year, Delta and Alitalia unsuccessfully sued the Italian government to block the Emirates route). In the next 15 years, the airline plans to double the number of U.S. destinations it flies into. Etihad will fly to four U.S. cities by the end of 2014, while Qatar Airways will be up to six. The expansion has not gone unnoticed by the American aviation industry. The U.S. trade group Airlines for America and the U.S. pilot union, Air Line Pilots Association International, have been the most ardent opponents of the Gulf carriers encroachment into the U.S. market, often joining Delta and United in lobbying Congress for protectionist policies. "It is interesting to see how the U.S. carriers and politicians are starting to respond," says Sobie. Read more: Why the Dubai Airshow is a gamechanger Tapping Africa In just a couple of years, Turkish Airlines has become the largest international carrier in Africa, flying into 39 destinations. At first glance, some of the African cities in their network might seem random -- why fly to Somalia? Their business plan underlines investment strategies for Turkey as a whole. According to the Center for Aviation many of the countries they serve, or are planning to serve, have a rapidly growing economy. In 2012, Rwanda's GDP grew by 8%, and Nigeria's by 6.6%. The continent also houses a wealth of natural resources. "The most important geographic part of the world over the next 100 years will be Africa. In this respect, any destination (we fly to) in Africa will create more effective results than, say, a destination in Europe," says Ali Genc, Turkish Airlines' senior vice president of media relations. Quiz time: Test your aviation knowledge Building BRICs Turkish Airlines and the Gulf carriers have been increasingly developing their network across Brazil, Russia, India and China (BRICs) -- the nations widely viewed as the most promising developing markets in the 21st century. The importance of developing these routes is not simply to connect these emerging markets with the Middle East, but with each other. "Carriers like Emirates, Etihad and Qatar can access emerging markets in Africa, Asia and Latin America and connect them in a way that is meaningful to travelers, and that European carriers can't hope to copy," says Strickland. Budget carriers like Air Arabia and flydubai have become particularly attractive to cities and towns across Central and Eastern Europe. "Regionally, we're seeing a lot of interest in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)," says Sobie. "Air Arabia and flydubai is a good fit for the medium-haul, thinner routes that are high-yielding and growing, but can't support the widebody aircraft of Emirates," he adds.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/tech/web/skype-translator/index.html	tech	Skype Translator to break the Web-chat language barrier - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 12:59:11 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Skype users soon will be able to expand the list of people they can connect with, says Microsoft, owner of the popular Web-chat tool. Still in its early stages of development, Skype Translator, as it's being called for now, will provide voice and text language translation for calls between people speaking different languages. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Gurdeep Pall, the vice president in charge of Skype, demonstrated the technology Tuesday night in California at the Code Conference, sponsored by tech-news site Re/Code. "It is going to make sure you can communicate with anybody without language barriers," Nadella said at the gathering in suburban Los Angeles. "In fact, it's the most human of things." At the demo, Pall, speaking English, and a colleague speaking German conducted a Skype video call. There were a couple of instances when the voice and text translation mixed up minor parts of a sentence, but overall it appeared to be spot on. The conversation was no simple "Hello, how are you?" either. It centered on Pall's plans to move to London and included the names of streets and neighborhoods in that city as well as discussion of his colleague's visits to Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, Washington. The two would speak, then wait while the program translated what was just said. "It is early days for this technology, but the 'Star Trek' vision for a Universal Translator isn't a galaxy away, and its potential is every bit as exciting as those 'Star Trek' examples," Pall said in a blog post. "Skype Translator opens up so many possibilities to make meaningful connections in ways you never could before in education, diplomacy, multilingual families and in business." After a short delay, the system posts one user's translated comments as text onscreen to the other user while a synthetic voice speaks them aloud. Pall said Skype Translator will be available first as a Windows 8 beta app by the end of this year. Microsoft purchased London-based Skype, which has 300 million monthly users, in 2011. But Nadella said the translation technology the program uses has been in development at Microsoft for 15 years. And, in another development straight out of science fiction, he said the current version is surprising even its creators. "Say you teach it English. It learns English," he said. "Then you teach it Mandarin. It learns Mandarin, but it becomes better at English. And then you teach it Spanish. It gets good at Spanish, but it gets great at both Mandarin and English -- and, quite frankly, none of us know exactly why. "It's brain-like in the sense of its capability to learn. It's magical."  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/06/06/world/europe/european-union-fast-facts/index.html	world	European Union Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/06/06	Thursday Jun 6 02:51:11 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here is a look at what you need to know about the European Union. About the European Union:  The European Union is an international organization made up of 28 European countries. It governs common economic, social and security policies of its member states. According the EU website, the objectives of the EU are to establish European citizenship, ensure freedom, justice and security, promote economic and social progress, and assert Europe's role in the world. Membership is open to any country with a democratic government, a good human rights record, and sound economic policies. The member states delegate sovereignty to the EU institutions to represent the interests of the European Union as a whole. Decisions and procedures stem from treaties ratified by the member states. The capital of the European Union is Brussels, Belgium. The EU is run by five main bodies: European Parliament, Council of the Union, European Commission, Court of Justice, and the Court of Auditors. The European Union is a major economic unit. The combined population of member countries is 57% larger than that of the United States. The United States is the EU's main trading partner. The Treaty of Lisbon amends the Treaty on European Union to explicitly recognize for the first time the Member States' right to withdraw from the union. (Article 50, amended TEU)  - Any Member State may decide to withdraw from the Union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements.  - A Member State which decides to withdraw shall notify the European Council of its intention. In the light of the guidelines provided by the European Council, the Union shall negotiate and conclude an agreement with that State, setting out the arrangements for its withdrawal, taking account of the framework for its future relationship with the Union. Timeline:  1957 - The European Economic Community (EEC) is created. The member countries are Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and West Germany. "The goal was to remove trade barriers and form a common market." 1973 - Denmark, Ireland, and the U.K. become member countries. 1981 - Greece becomes a member. 1985 - Spain and Portugal become members February 7, 1992 - The Treaty on the European Union is signed in Maastricht (Netherlands) by leaders of the member states. November 1, 1993 - The Maastricht Treaty enters into force. 1993 - The EC members at the time (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Greece, Spain, UK, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Denmark, Ireland, and Portugal) extend their cooperation into the areas of Justice and Home Affairs and a Common Foreign and Security Policy. January 1, 1995 - Austria, Finland, and Sweden join the EU. April 30, 2004 - A ceremony is held in Dublin, Ireland marking the expansion of the EU from 15 to 25 members. The new members are Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, and Slovenia. June 2004 - The member countries approve the text of the EU Constitution. It is signed by all the members in October 2004. May 29, 2005 - The people of France (and its territories) vote against the European Union constitution in a referendum. (No = 54.87%/Yes = 45.13%) June 1, 2005 - The Netherlands votes against the constitution in a referendum. All 27 members of the EU must pass the constitution for it to take effect. Either a national parliament can approve it or in some countries, the citizens vote on a referendum. June 23, 2007 - European Union leaders in Brussels agree on an outline of a treaty that would replace the EU constitution rejected by French and Dutch voters two years ago. June 19, 2008 - European Union decides to lift diplomatic sanctions imposed on Cuba. November 19, 2009 - Herman Van Rompuy, the Belgian Prime Minister, is Europe's first president under the Treaty of Lisbon. Catherine Ashton of the UK will be the first foreign minister. December 1, 2009 - The Treaty of Lisbon comes into force, having been ratified by all European Union member states. It amends the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Rome Treaty of 1957. October 12, 2012 - Is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for contributing to the advancement of peace, democracy and human rights in Europe. June 25, 2013 - European Union agrees to a new round of membership negotiations with Turkey.  July 1, 2013 - Croatia joins the EU as its 28th member. April 1, 2014 - European Union launches military operations to restore stability to the Central African Republic. Presidencies of the Council of the European Union until 2020:  Greece: January-June 2014   Italy: July-December 2014   Latvia: January-June 2015   Luxemburg: July-December 2015   Netherlands: January-June 2016   Slovakia: July-December 2016   Malta: January-June 2017   United Kingdom: July-December 2017   Estonia: January-June 2018   Bulgaria: July-December 2018   Austria: January-June 2019   Romania: July-December 2019   Finland: January-June 2020 Current Members:  (Founding members in bold)  Austria  Belgium  Bulgaria  Croatia  Cyprus  Czech Republic  Denmark   Estonia  Finland  France  Germany  Greece   Hungary  Ireland   Italy  Latvia   Lithuania   Luxembourg  Malta   Netherlands  Poland  Portugal  Romania  Slovakia  Slovenia  Spain   Sweden  United Kingdom Candidate Countries:  Iceland  Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia   Turkey Applicant Countries:  Albania  Bosnia and Herzegovina  Kosovo  Montenegro  Serbia  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/07/tech/incredible-new-tech-inspired-by-biology/index.html	tech	Incredible new tech inspired by biology - CNN.com	2014/05/07	Wednesday May 7 11:25:57 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When the body comes under attack by flu, dendritic cells rush to the site of infection and identify the alien forms attacking it. Millions raise the alarm and the immune system is fired into action. It is a reliable and effective response, and what is good enough to protect our health has also proved capable of safeguarding inboxes. Artificial immune systems (AIS) based on the body's cellular response to disease are being used to target spam. 'It's an adaptive system that can be more nuanced in detecting what's dangerous", says Dr. Uwe Aickelin, professor of computer science at the university of Nottingham and leading AIS developer. "Millions of pieces of information are gathered so the cells are very accurate." While the cells in our bodies will respond to signals such as stress and inflammation, Aickelin's software analogue picks up on the traffic bombardments associated with spam. While generic filters can cope with conventional phishing, the cellular system is suited to a user facing frequent new threats, and has been employed by leading security companies. This model represents a potentially transformative shift in the rapidly expanding field of biomimicry. The trend for nature-inspired designs has spread across industries from crab-style deep-sea vessels to insect-inspired buildings, and is projected to generate $1.6 trillion by 2030 according to Da Vinci Index. But now technologies based specifically on cellular designs are making nature itself the driving force. In addition to computing, cellular biomimicry is making its mark in water filtration, meeting President Nixon's historic challenge to make the oceans drinkable, using a membrane present in humans and plants. Meanwhile, photosynthetic processes are being applied to the capture and storage of solar energy, while millions of dollars have been invested in applying the properties of lung cells to building exteriors -- the 'Eskin' - to create a layer that allows them to interact efficiently with both people and the environment. "It represents a shift and ultimately where we are heading", Janine Benyus, biologist, author and founder of Biomimcry 3.8 told CNN. "We have become very successful in mimicking form, but the real transformational change comes in how we build our material world. Every day we are learning more about molecular machinery in cells and how they work so as to understand and use their design principles is key. These principles are being applied to some of the most critical resource issues, including fuel through the development of biobatteries. Researchers at the University of Utah have created a battery based on the process of metabolism, using sugar as fuel, catalyzed with the natural energy conversion properties of enzymes. "If you see a small child consume sugar they convert it to run around all day, so it's very efficient and we take the same pathways to apply to the battery", says lead developer Shelley Minteer, who claims the design has favorable performance qualities. The biobattery can already operate devices such as smartphones, and may prove more versatile than traditional batteries as it can function in extremely low temperatures. The technology is proved to the extent that offshoot company Akermin has received a $3 million grant to use the technology in one of the US' largest carbon cleaning operations in power plants. The combination of living process and synthetic materials is rarely seamless, Minteer admits. Yet advances in the technology of modeling are now allowing greater control and accuracy. Scientists can sculpt the synthesized cells at nano scale into ever more efficient arrangements, getting closer to the natural design. Visualization tools are being driven by creative fields, notably architecture, while manufacturing is improving rapidly through 3D printing. There are skeptics that believe natural processes are being too readily applied. "Natural systems evolved for very specific reasons, over millions of years, with very specific parameters, scale-lengths, forces, and the process of translating these phenomena to other scales, function and human desires does not come naturally or directly.", Skylar Tibbits, lead researcher at MIT's self-assembly lab, argued in a 2013 TED talk. "We should not simply assume that systems working at nanoscales can easily be translated to large scales." Critics have also warned of 'Jurassic Park' unpredictable and unwanted side effects when natural process are transplanted into technology. Such effects have been noted in Uwe Ackelein's anti-spam program, where the target adapts the defense as well as vice versa. But these risks pale compared to the potential benefits, exponents believe. Using the processes of nature can deliver designs uniquely adaptive to the environment, with better function and resource management, that can transform industries to deliver solutions to the most critical questions of the age. Read more from Make, Create, Innovate: Forget wearable tech, embeddable implants are already here This 'Star Trek'-style molecular sensor fits in your hand, reads your food 'Miracle material' graphene one step closer to commercial use  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/28/world/operation-enduring-freedom-fast-facts/index.html	world	Operation Enduring Freedom Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/10/28	Monday Oct 28 04:58:46 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at Operation Enduring Freedom which began on October 7, 2001, with allied air strikes on Taliban and al Qaeda targets. The United States linked the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to al Qaeda, a group which operated under the Taliban regime's protection in Afghanistan. The operation was launched to stop the Taliban from providing a safe haven to al Qaeda and to stop al Qaeda's use of Afghanistan as a base of operations for terrorist activities. Timeline:   October 7, 2001 - Operation Enduring Freedom begins. President George W. Bush announces that U.S. and British forces have begun airstrikes on Taliban and al Qaeda targets in Afghanistan. Airstrikes continue for five days. October 14, 2001 - The Taliban offers to discuss giving Osama bin Laden to a third country for trial if the U.S. provides evidence of bin Laden's involvement in the 9-11 attacks. The White House rejects the offer. October 19, 2001 - The Pentagon reports that U.S. forces have searched a compound used by Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar. This is the first acknowledged ground action of OEF. October 26, 2001 - British Armed Forces Minister Adam Ingram tells the House of Commons that Britain is deploying a force of 4,200 personnel military to Afghanistan. November 1, 2001 - Turkey announces it will deploy troops to Afghanistan. Australia and Canada also agree to send forces. November 5, 2001 - U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld announces that the U.S. has more than doubled the number of its troops based in Afghanistan. November 6, 2001 - German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder offers up to 3,900 troops for the effort. November 7, 2001 - Italy says it will provide 2,700 troops. November 9, 2001 - The Netherlands announces that they are prepared to send up to 1,400 troops to Afghanistan. November 13, 2001 - U.S. airstrikes and ground attacks by the anti-Taliban Afghan Northern Alliance lead to the fall of Kabul. November 16, 2001 - French troops deploy for Afghanistan. November 20, 2001 - The bodies of four journalists missing in Afghanistan are recovered. The journalists are on the road between Jalalabad and Kabul when their convoy is attacked. November 22, 2001 - Poland agrees to contribute up to 300 soldiers to OEF. December 2-5, 2001 - The United Nations hosts the Bonn Conference in Germany. The resulting Bonn Agreement creates an Afghan Interim Authority and outlines a process for creating a new constitution and choosing a new government. December 7, 2001 - The Taliban loses its last major stronghold as the city of Kandahar falls and opposition forces enter. December 20, 2001 - The United Nations authorizes the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) to provide security support to the Afghans. The United Kingdom agrees to lead the force initially. December 22, 2001 - Hamid Karzai is sworn in as head of an interim power-sharing government. January 23, 2002 - Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl is abducted in Karachi, Pakistan, by the National Movement for the Restoration of Pakistani Sovereignty, who claim the kidnapping is in retaliation for the detention of Pakistanis at Guantanamo. January 27, 2002 - Media organizations receive the first email from Pearl's captors, which includes photos of reporter Daniel Pearl handcuffed with a gun to his head. February 21, 2002 - FBI and Pakistani officials announce they have received a videotape that confirms Pearl has been killed. March 25, 2002 - Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld announces that there are plans under way for U.S. and coalition forces to help train and create an Afghan national army. June 13, 2002 - Hamid Karzai is elected to a two-year presidential term by the grand council, a gathering of Afghanistan's tribal leaders. August 9, 2003 - NATO assumes responsibility for the ISAF mission. January 2004 - Afghanistan passes a new constitution by consensus. October 9, 2004 - Afghanistan's first direct democratic election is held. December 7, 2004 - Hamid Karzai is sworn in as the first democratically elected president of Afghanistan. September 18, 2005 - The first parliamentary and provincial elections are held in more than three decades. March 1, 2006 - President George W. Bush makes his first visit to Afghanistan, and meets with President Hamid Karzai. February 27, 2007 - A suicide bomber blows up a checkpoint at Bagram Air Base, killing more than 20. Taliban insurgents claim Vice President Dick Cheney was the target of the attack. February 15, 2007 - President Bush calls on NATO to increase troops in Afghanistan. There are already about 50,000 U.S. and NATO troops there. May 11, 2007 - The Taliban's top military commander, Mullah Dadullah, is killed in a U.S.-led coalition operation. July 19, 2008 - Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama makes his first visit to Afghanistan. December 15, 2008 - President Bush makes a surprise visit to Afghanistan. It is his second and last visit as president. February 17, 2009 - President Obama approves a troop increase of 17,000 for Afghanistan. There are currently about 38,000 U.S. troops serving in Afghanistan. June 30, 2009 - U.S. soldier Sgt. Bowe R. Bergdahl is taken hostage by the Taliban. August 20, 2009 - Afghanistan holds its second election. Voting fraud allegations lead to the scheduling of a presidential runoff vote on November 7. October 31, 2009 - A runoff election is canceled when Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah drops out, leaving Karzai as the only candidate and winner by default. November 19, 2009 - Hamid Karzai is sworn in for a second term as president. December 1, 2009 - President Obama announces the deployment in 2010 of 30,000 additional U.S. troops. This new deployment will bring the U.S. total to almost 100,000 troops, in addition to 40,000 NATO troops. January 2010 - Representatives from over 60 nations meet in London for the International Conference on Afghanistan, pledging support the development of the Afghan National Security Forces. March 28, 2010 - President Obama makes his first visit to Afghanistan as president. August 1, 2010 - The Netherlands becomes the first NATO member to pull combat troops out of Afghanistan. August 5, 2010 - Ten aid workers are killed by gunmen in Badakhshan, Afghanistan. Among the dead are six Americans, two Afghans, a Briton and a German. September 18, 2010 - Parliamentary elections are held. Results are delayed following allegations of fraud. December 3, 2010 - President Obama visits for the third time, the second as president. May 2, 2011 - In the early morning hours, a small group of U.S. Forces, including Navy Seals, raid a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. In the ensuing firefight, al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden is killed. DNA samples are taken to confirm his identity, then his body is buried at sea. June 22, 2011 - President Obama announces that all of the 33,000 additional U.S. forces deployed to Afghanistan in December 2009 will return home within the next 15 months. He also announces that U.S. combat operations in Afghanistan will end by 2014. July 13, 2011 - The first batch of departing U.S. soldiers leaves Afghanistan. About 650 U.S. soldiers leave the northeastern province of Parwan. August 6, 2011 - Insurgents shoot down a helicopter in central Afghanistan, killing 30 U.S. coalition members, seven Afghan troops and a civilian interpreter. August 10, 2011 - NATO announces that Coalition forces in Afghanistan have killed Mullah Mohibullah, the Taliban leader and insurgent responsible for the downing of the helicopter that left 38 U.S. and Afghan personnel dead. August 2011 - August becomes the deadliest month for U.S. forces in Afghanistan since the conflict began, with 71 U.S. casualties. September 10, 2011 - Two Afghan civilians are killed and 77 U.S. troops and 25 Afghan workers are wounded when a Taliban suicide bomber detonates a large vehicle-borne improvised explosive device at the entrance of Combat Outpost Sayed Abad, an ISAF base in Afghanistan's Wardak province. September 13, 2011 - Taliban militants open fire near the U.S. Embassy and NATO's International Security Assistance Force headquarters after they storm into a nearby abandoned building. Three police officers and one civilian are killed and security forces kill six militants. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid tells CNN their target is the U.S. Embassy, governmental organizations and other foreign organizations. February 1, 2012 - Defense Secretary Leon Panetta announces that the U.S. hopes to end their combat mission in Afghanistan in 2013, transitioning primarily to a training role. February 21, 2012 - Violent protest break out in Afghanistan over reports that Qurans were burned at a U.S. military base. A military official says the Qurans were removed from a detainee center library at Bagram Airfield because they had "extremist inscriptions" on them. As of March 2, the unrest has left at least 41 people dead, including 6 U.S. soldiers, and hundreds more wounded. March 11, 2012 - An American soldier based at Camp Belambay, Afghanistan allegedly goes on a house-to-house shooting spree in two villages in Kandahar province, killing 17 people. (Initial reports indicated 16 people had died.) April 8, 2012 - The U.S. and Afghanistan sign a landmark deal that gives Afghan authorities an effective veto over special operations night raids. The deal prevents NATO's ISAF from conducting raids without the permission of Afghan officials. April 18, 2012 - The Los Angeles Times releases pictures believed to have been taken in 2010 of U.S. 82nd Airborne Division paratroopers posing with the body parts of dead insurgents in Afghanistan. May 2, 2012 - President Obama marks the first anniversary of the death of Osama bin Laden with an unannounced trip to Afghanistan. According to the White House, his speech is the first TV address to the nation from a war zone on foreign soil. Obama and Afghan President Hamid Karzai also sign a strategic partnership agreement for 10 years of U.S. support of Afghanistan after the 2014 troop withdrawal. June 9, 2012 - French President Francois Hollande announces his plan to withdraw combat forces by year's end will start next month. September 1, 2012 - Two suicide bombers strike a joint U.S.-Afghan military base, killing 13 people and injuring 78 others. One bomber attacks the base on foot and another one detonates a truck. No international coalition service members are killed in the attack, but two are wounded. The Taliban claim responsibility for the attack. September 2, 2012 - U.S. Special Operations Forces temporarily suspends training of some 1,000 Afghan local police recruits while they double-check the background of the current police force, following a rise in insider attacks against NATO troops by Afghan forces. September 14, 2012 - Fifteen insurgents wearing U.S. Army uniforms attack Camp Bastion, a U.S. and British military complex. Fourteen insurgents and two U.S. Marines are killed and six AV-8B Harrier jets are destroyed during the attack. Nine others are wounded, one civilian and eight coalition personnel. Britain's Prince Harry, an Apache helicopter pilot, is deployed to Camp Bastion; he is unhurt during the incident. September 20, 2012 - It is announced that the surge of U.S. forces in Afghanistan has ended and the last several hundred surge troops have left the country.  December 2012 - France pulls its last troops engaged directly in combat out of Afghanistan. The remaining French troops, about 1,500, will remain in Afghanistan for approximately six months to remove equipment and to help train Afghan forces. June 18, 2013 - Afghan National Security Forces formally take over combat operations. March 12, 2014 - A flag lowering ceremony is held in Kabul to mark the end of Canada's military mission in Afghanistan. May 27, 2014 - President Obama announces that the United States combat mission in Afghanistan will end in December 2014.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/travel/qatar-kuwait-skimpy-clothing-bans/index.html	travel	Bikinis and skimpy clothing targeted in Gulf cover-up campaigns - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 12:08:04 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The flashing of flesh in several Gulf states may just have got a little harder after efforts were launched to ban bikinis and get visitors to cover up. In Qatar, a campaign using posters and social media is encouraging expats to wear modest clothing in public, while in Kuwait, lawmakers have reportedly called for some swimwear to be outlawed. Brochures distributed by the "Reflect Your Respect" campaign tell expats: "If you're in Qatar you're one of us. Help us preserve Qatar's culture and values, please dress modestly in public places by covering from shoulders to knees." Posters identify as inappropriate sleeveless dresses, exposed midriffs, tank tops on men and women and skirts or shorts above the knee. MORE: 'Bikini ban' slated for Spanish island Women are notified that "leggings are not pants." The campaign has taken to Twitter and Instagram to drive home its message and also reportedly intends to dispatch female volunteers to hand out leaflets in public. The campaign's organizers were not immediately available for comment. Breach of morality Clothing advice is nothing new in Qatar. Its tourism authority advises on its website that "men and women should dress modestly as a courtesy to both Qataris and Muslims... Tops should cover the shoulders and upper arms, and skirts or shorts should fall to or below the knee." The new campaign points out that anyone residing or visiting the country is subjected to Qatari laws that are widely considered to prohibit immodest attire as a breach of morality. Most Qataris dress conservatively according to Islamic custom. Women wear flowing black robes called abayas while men wear white robes called thawbs. However, Qataris account for a small proportion of the population -- approximately 85% of the country's two million residents are expats. Attempts to implement a strict dress code could impact on visitors as Qatar gears up to host the 2022 World Cup. MORE: 10 outrageous spas in the Middle East Reaction on social media was mixed. "Appreciate the dress code campaign by @reflect_respect as being done respectfully and tastefully and for both genders," said a tweet by Fadi El Hage "Respect is through actions not what you wear," tweeted Sindhu Nair. Bathers targeted Motte Christian's reaction was more tongue-in-cheek, tweeting "I'm looking forward to see footballer wearing pants during football world cup 2022." All the Gulf countries, which are socially conservative and have large expatriate populations, advise foreigners to dress modestly although it is rarely enshrined in law. Saudi Arabia is the only Arab country that requires women to wear abayas and cover their hair in public. Last year the United Arab Emirates witnessed a similar social media campaign to encourage visitors to dress modestly. Meanwhile, in Kuwait, officials are reportedly seeking to target bathers. A committee dealing with "tackling bad social behavior" has approved a proposal to ban "nudity" of women at all swimming pools, public places and in hotels, according to the English-language Kuwait Times. Hamdan Al-Azemi, an Islamist lawmaker who heads the committee, did not specify what was meant by "nudity" but the newspaper reports that the term includes wearing bikinis and "revealing or improper dress." The proposal needs to be approved by parliament and ratified by the Kuwaiti government before being enshrined into law.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/30/us/hurricane-season-fast-facts/index.html	us	Hurricane Season Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/05/30	Thursday May 30 12:38:51 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at what you need to know about the Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June 1 to November 30. Facts:  The National Weather Service defines a hurricane as "an intense tropical weather system with well-defined circulation and sustained winds of 74mph (64 knots) or higher." The peak of the season is from mid-August to late October. In the western Northern Pacific, hurricanes are called typhoons. Similar storms in the Indian Ocean are called cyclones. Hurricanes are rated according to intensity on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale. The 1-5 scale estimates potential property damage. A Category 3 or higher is considered a major hurricane. A hurricane watch indicates the possibility that a region could experience hurricane conditions within 48 hours. A hurricane warning indicates that tropical-storm-force winds of at least 74 mph are expected within 36 hours. Hurricane Development:  There are three stages of development: tropical depression to tropical storm to hurricane. Tropical depression - when a cluster of thunderstorms organizes under the right atmospheric conditions for a long enough time, with maximum sustained winds of 38 mph (33 knots) or lower. Tropical storm - a tropical depression that has intensified to the point where its maximum sustained winds are between 39-73 mph (34-63 knots). During this time, the storm itself becomes more organized and begins to become more circular in shape -- resembling a hurricane. This is when the storm is named. Hurricane - develops from a tropical storm as surface pressures continue to drop, and sustained wind speeds reach 74 mph (64 knots) or higher, with a pronounced rotation developing around the central core. Hurricane Categories:  From National Hurricane Center/NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) The Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale is a 1-5 rating based on the hurricane's present intensity. It estimates potential property damage. Sustained wind speed is the determining factor in the scale. Category One Hurricane   Winds 74-95 mph (64-82 kt or 119-153 km/hr). No real damage to building structures. Damage primarily to unanchored mobile homes, shrubbery, and trees. Some damage to poorly constructed signs and coastal road flooding with minor pier damage. Damage to power lines and poles could result in power outages lasting several days. Category Two Hurricane  Winds 96-110 mph (83-95 kt or 154-177 km/hr). Some roofing material, door, and window damage of buildings. Considerable damage to shrubbery and trees with some trees blown down. Considerable damage to mobile homes, poorly constructed signs, and piers. Small craft in unprotected anchorages break moorings. Power outages could last from several days to weeks. Category Three Hurricane  Winds 111-129 mph (96-112 kt or 178-208 km/hr). Some structural damage to small residences and utility buildings with a minor amount of curtainwall failures. Many large trees will be uprooted and blown down, blocking roads. Mobile homes and poorly constructed signs are destroyed. Evacuation of low-lying residences within several blocks of the shoreline may be required. Electricity and water will be unavailable for several days to weeks. Category Four Hurricane  Winds 130-156 mph (113-136 kt or 209-251 km/hr). More extensive curtainwall failures with some complete roof structure failures on small residences. Shrubs, trees, and all signs are blown down. Complete destruction of mobile homes. Extensive damage to doors and windows. Power outages will last from weeks to possibly months, with most of the area also being uninhabitable for weeks or months. Category Five Hurricane  Winds greater than 157 mph (137 kt or 252 km/hr). Complete roof failure on many residences and industrial buildings. Some complete building failures with small utility buildings blown over or away. All shrubs, trees, and signs blown down. Complete destruction of mobile homes. Severe and extensive window and door damage. Massive evacuation of residential areas on low ground within 5-10 miles (8-16 km) of the shoreline may be required. Power outages will last from weeks to possibly months, with most of the area also being uninhabitable for weeks or months. Names:  Once a storm system with counter-clockwise circulation and sustained wind speeds of 39 mph or greater is identified by the National Hurricane Center in Miami, a name from the list is assigned to the storm. There are nine regional lists of names: Atlantic, Eastern North Pacific, Central North Pacific, Western North Pacific Ocean/South China Sea, Australian Region, Port Moresby/Papua New Guinea, Fiji Region, Southwest Indian Ocean and North Indian Ocean. Using women's names became the practice during World War II, following the use of a woman's name for a storm in the 1941 novel "Storm" by George R. Stewart. In 1979, the list of hurricane names for the Atlantic regions began to include male names. Six separate name lists are developed and agreed upon by the World Meteorological Organization. The lists are rotated every six years. Names associated with storms that have caused significant death and/or damage are retired from the list. Camille (1969), Andrew (1992), Opal (1995), Floyd (1999), Ivan (2004), Katrina (2005), Ike (2008) and Sandy (2012) have all been retired from the list. Once a name is removed, another name replaces it.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/stan-lee-fast-facts/index.html	us	Stan Lee Fast Facts - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 11:48:53 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Here's a look at the life of American cartoonist Stan Lee. Personal:  Birth date: December 28, 1922 Birth place: New York, New York Birth name: Stanley Martin Lieber Father: Jack Lieber, tailor Mother: Celia (Solomon) Lieber, homemaker Marriage: Joan (Boocock) Lee (December 1947-present) Children: Jan, 1953-1953, Joan Celia "J.C.", 1950 Other Facts:  Graduated high school at 16. Stan Lee started out as a pseudonym, but is now his legal name. Lee originally used it "because I felt someday I'd be writing the Great American Novel and I didn't want to use my real name on these silly little comics." Marvel Comics was previously named Atlas Comics, and before that, Timely Comics. Lee was with the company officially for nearly six decades. Served in the Army in World War II. Conceived or co-created The Incredible Hulk, The Amazing Spider-Man, The X-Men, Daredevil, The Fantastic Four, Doctor Strange and others. In the 1960s, Lee worked closely with artist Jack Kirby and illustrator Steve Ditko. Has had cameos in many of the films based on his comics. Many of the stories, such as The X-Men, serve as metaphors for social issues, such as oppression and discrimination. Timeline:  1939 - Through family connections, Lee gets a job at Timely Comics as an assistant. 1941 - Becomes editor at Timely Comics. 1942-1945 - Serves in the Army, writing manuals and scripts for training films as part of the Signal Corps. One of only nine people in the Army listed as a "playwright." 1961 - Lee co-creates The Fantastic Four with artist Jack Kirby under the Marvel Comics banner. 1963 - Develops The X-Men. 1972 - Lee becomes Marvel's president and publisher. 1981 - Becomes creative head of Marvel Productions Ltd., an animation studio based in Los Angeles. 1986-1989 - New World Entertainment owns Marvel Entertainment Group, parent company of Marvel Productions, Marvel Comics Group and Marvel Comics Ltd. Lee continues to work as creative head of Marvel Productions and publisher of Marvel Comics Group. 1996 - Marvel Entertainment files for bankruptcy. 1998 - Marvel emerges from bankruptcy as Marvel Enterprises Inc., a unit of Toy Biz Inc. Following the bankruptcy, Lee's contract is void. His new lifetime deal only requires him to spend 10% of his time with the company. He becomes chairman emeritus. 1999 - Forms Stan Lee Media. February 2001 - Stan Lee Media files for bankruptcy. 2001 - With Gill Champion, starts POW! Entertainment, which focuses on creating and licensing intellectual property. November 2002 - After receiving no profits from the first Spider-Man movie, Lee files a $10 million lawsuit against Marvel. 2005 - Wins the lawsuit against Marvel. 2006 - Stan Lee Media emerges from bankruptcy. 2007 - Lee sues Stan Lee Media for copyright infringement and other claims. 2008 - President George W. Bush presents Lee with the American National Medal of the Arts. December 31, 2009 - The Walt Disney Company purchases Marvel Entertainment for $4.3 billion. Disney also purchases 10% stake of POW! Entertainment for $2.5 million. January 2009 - Four Stan Lee Media shareholders sue Lee and Marvel for violating copyright interests. 2010 - The History Channel launches the series Stan Lee's Superhumans, which documents people with extraordinary skills and abilities. October 2012 - Stan Lee Media sues Disney for profits from Marvel movies and merchandise. September 2013 - A federal judge rules in favor of Disney.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/03/20/us/john-hinckley-jr-fast-facts/index.html	us	John Hinckley Jr Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/03/20	Wednesday Mar 20 12:51:58 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at the life of John Hinckley, Jr., who attempted to kill President Ronald Reagan in 1981, but was found not guilty by reason of insanity. Personal:  Birth date: May 29, 1955 Birth place: Ardmore, Oklahoma Birth name: John Warnock Hinckley, Jr. Father: John W. Hinckley, Sr., an oil exploration business owner Mother: Jo Ann (Moore) Hinckley Education: Attended Texas Tech University for seven years Other Facts:  Stalked actress Jodie Foster for a time and says he was trying to impress her with the Reagan assassination attempt. He says he became obsessed with her after seeing her in the movie "Taxi Driver," in which the main character tries to assassinate a U.S. senator. Whenever he leaves the hospital, Hinckley carries a GPS equipped cell phone and is sometimes followed by Secret Service agents. Timeline:  October 9, 1980 - Hinckley is arrested at Nashville International Airport for possession of three firearms. President Jimmy Carter is in town that same day. March 30, 1981 - At 2:25 pm EST, President Ronald Reagan comes out of the Hilton Hotel in Washington, DC. Hinckley is waiting for him in the crowd and begins shooting. One bullet hits Reagan in his left lung. Also injured are Press Secretary James Brady, Secret Service agent Timothy J. McCarthy and Washington police officer Thomas K. Delahanty. Brady is shot in the head and partially paralyzed. Hinckley is handcuffed moments after firing six shots at Reagan from almost point-blank range. March 31, 1981 - The federal government formally charges Hinckley with attempting to assassinate the president and assaulting a Secret Service officer. May 27, 1981 - Takes a Tylenol overdose in an attempt to harm himself. August 28, 1981 - At his arraignment, Hinckley pleads not guilty by reason of insanity to a 13-count indictment. November 15, 1981 - Hinckley tries to commit suicide a second time by hanging himself with an article of clothing. May 4, 1982 - Trial begins. June 21, 1982 - Hinckley is found not guilty by reason of insanity. He is committed to St. Elizabeths Hospital in Washington, DC. February 13, 1983 - Hinckley makes a third suicide attempt since the shooting, this time by an overdose of antidepressant medication. 1985 - Hinckley's parents establish a non-profit organization called the American Mental Health Fund, to raise money for mental health research. 1985 - Hinckley's doctors report his condition to be in "full remission." 1986 - Hinckley makes a brief, supervised visit to his see parents. January 15, 1999 - The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in Washington, DC rules that Hinckley can make supervised trips out of the hospital, accompanied by hospital personnel. August 12, 1999 - Hinckley makes a brief, supervised visit outside of the hospital. April 11, 2000 - Representatives at St. Elizabeths Hospital recommend allowing Hinckley unsupervised visits with family. June 29, 2000 - The hospital withdraws its recommendation for unsupervised visits to Hinckley's parents' Williamsburg, Virginia, home following a hearing in which prosecutors provide evidence of Hinckley's continued interest in violent books and music. December 17, 2003 - A judge rules that Hinckley will be allowed limited, unsupervised daytime visits with his parents within a 50-mile radius of Washington, DC. December 30, 2005 - U.S. District Court Judge Paul Friedman rules that Hinckley will be allowed three visits of three nights each to his parents' home in Williamsburg, Virginia, unaccompanied by hospital staff. Hinckley "is not permitted to leave one or both parents' supervision at any time." April 16, 2007 - A hearing begins on whether to increase the length of Hinckley's visits to his parents to two and four weeks at a time. June 2007 - A judge rules that Hinckley may make six-night visits to his parent's home in Virginia, but longer visits are denied until the hospital submits a more detailed proposal of Hinckley's schedule. February 2008 - Hinckley is allowed to attend his father's funeral in Williamsburg, Virginia. June 2009 - Judge Friedman increases the length of Hinckley's visits home to 10 days 12 times per year. Hinckley is also authorized to obtain a driver's license. The judge agrees he is not a danger to himself or others under the proper conditions. May 2011 - Judge Friedman approves Hinckley's request for additional unsupervised visits to his mother's home in Virginia. July 29, 2011 - St. Elizabeths Hospital asks the court to allow Hinckley two 17-day visits followed by six stays lasting 24 days. After the proposed visits, St. Elizabeths requests the authority to decide whether Hinckley could be released on "convalescent leave," which would make him a permanent outpatient. September 30, 2011 - The government files a motion in opposition of the hospital's request for expanded conditions of Hinckley's release. November 30, 2011 - A hearing begins, which may determine whether to eventually free Hinckley from a mental hospital. February 9, 2012 - Hinckley's hearing on expanded visitations and possible eventual release ends. August 17, 2012 - Prosecutors on the Hinckley case file a motion asking Judge Paul Friedman to reject the proposal for more visitation time because People's Place treatment facility had dropped out of a plan calling for Hinckley to participate in social group sessions. February 25-28, 2013 - A hearing on St. Elizabeths Hospital's request for Hinckley's expanded visits and possible eventual release is held. The hospital proposes Hinckley attend social group sessions with a psychotherapist and see another specialist in lieu of the group sessions at People's Place mental health facility that were withdrawn in August 2012. December 20, 2013 - A federal judge agrees to let Hinckley have expanded conditional release from a Washington psychiatric hospital, where he currently has been detained. Judge Paul Friedman said Hinckley is allowed 17-day periods of off-campus visits to his mother's home in Williamsburg, Virginiaup from the current 10-day visits.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/06/06/us/performance-enhancing-drugs-in-sports-fast-facts/index.html	us	Performance Enhancing Drugs in Sports Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/06/06	Thursday Jun 6 02:00:32 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at performance enhancing drugs in sports. Facts:  The use of performance-enhancing drugs by professional athletes, or "doping", has been acknowledged as a problem since at least the 1960s. The issue has gained prominence in the last ten years as a result of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative (BALCO) investigation, tell-alls by former professional athletes and the Mitchell investigation into drugs in professional baseball. About Performance-Enhancing Drugs:  There are several types of performance-enhancing drugs: anabolic steroids, stimulants, human growth hormone and supplements. Anabolic steroids are synthetic substances that stimulate proteins that help build non-fat muscle mass, helping an athlete become stronger and able to train and play for longer periods of time. Tetrahydrogestrinone, also called "THG" or "The Clear," is the type of steroid purportedly used by many high-profile athletes, including track star Marion Jones and baseball player Barry Bonds. Stimulants help boost an athlete's energy level, helpful after strenuous training. Amphetamines are a type of stimulant. Human growth hormone (HGH), is available only by prescription and is administered by injection. Athletes take it for improved endurance and strength although there is no definitive proof that it boosts athletic performance. Androstenedione, known as "andro," was formerly an over the counter supplement but was banned by the NFL, Olympics, NCAA and later the MLB. It helps the body process testosterone. Timeline:   1976 - The International Olympic Committee (IOC) bans the use of steroids. July 1981 - U.S. discus thrower Ben Plucknett tests positive for anabolic steroids. He loses his world record title, the first athlete to be disqualified by the International Association of Athletic Federations due to a positive drug test. 1987 - The National Football League begins testing players for steroids. 1988 - Congress passes the Anti-Drug Abuse Act, which makes possession and distribution of nonprescription anabolic steroids for non-medical purposes a crime. 1990 - Congress strengthens the 1988 law by classifying anabolic steroids as a controlled substance. 1999 - The IOC creates the World Anti-Doping Agency. 2000 - The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) is established. 2003 - Major League Baseball institutes its first steroid policy, which is criticized for being too lenient. Spring 2003 - In a secretly taped conversation, personal trainer Greg Anderson acknowledges he had provided baseball player Barry Bonds with an "undetectable" performance-enhancing drug. June 2003 - Track coach Trevor Graham anonymously contacts the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency and provides them with a syringe filled with THG and says it was supplied by BALCO CEO Victor Conte. Graham is Olympic gold medalist Marion Jones's former coach. September 3, 2003 - Federal agents raid BALCO offices and seize containers labeled steroids and human growth hormones. During the raid, CEO Victor Conte allegedly says he had provided Barry Bonds with steroids and that the outfielder had used them regularly. Conte has since denied making the statements. Also during the raid, Bonds' personal trainer Greg Anderson admits distributing steroids. October 23, 2003 - The grand jury investigation into the BALCO lab and steroids in sports begins. November 6, 2003 - Sprinter Tim Montgomery testifies before the federal grand jury that Victor Conte had claimed he provided Barry Bonds with the steroid Winstrol in 2000 or 2001. Conte later denies the allegation. February 12, 2004 - Victor Conte, James Valente (BALCO vice-president), Greg Anderson, and Remi Korchemny (track coach), are indicted on 42-counts including conspiracy to distribute steroids, misbranding drugs with intent to defraud, and money laundering. July 2004 - C. J. Hunter, Marion Jones's ex-husband, says Jones was on steroids when she won five medals in the Sydney Olympics. Jones denies the allegations. October 11, 2004 - New York Yankees outfielder Gary Sheffield tells Sports Illustrated that Barry Bonds introduced him to Victor Conte and Greg Anderson and claims Anderson gave him a BALCO cream that he said he later learned was a designer steroid. December 2, 2004 - The "San Francisco Chronicle" releases leaked information from secret grand jury testimony from December 2003 that New York Yankees player Jason Giambi testified that he had injected himself with a human growth hormone in 2003 and used steroids for at least three seasons. December 3, 2004 - The Chronicle releases more leaked testimony from the December 2003 grand jury testimony. The transcripts reveal that Barry Bonds testified before the grand jury that he unknowingly used steroids provided to him by trainer Greg Anderson. February 14, 2005 - Retired baseball star Jose Canseco publishes his autobiography, entitled "Juiced: Wild Times, Rampant 'Roids, Smash Hits and How Baseball Got Big." In the book, Canseco recounts his own steroid use and implicates other players. March 17, 2005 - Six former and current Major League Baseball stars testify before the House Committee on Government Reform about drugs in baseball. They include Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Rafael Palmeiro, and Jose Canseco. Some flatly deny using steroids, while others evade the question. July 13, 2005 - The National Hockey League settles the longest strike in professional sports history. One of the agreements involves the League's first testing policy for performance-enhancing drugs. July 15, 2005 - Victor Conte and Greg Anderson plead guilty to steroid distribution and money laundering. James Valente pleads guilty to steroid distribution. Conte serves four months in prison, Anderson serves three, and Valente receives probation. November 15, 2005 - Major League Baseball announces that it is increasing penalties for doping. March 23, 2006 - Reporters Mark Fainaru-Wada and Lance Williams of the San Francisco Chronicle release the expos "Game of Shadows: Barry Bonds, BALCO, and the Steroids Scandal that Rocked Professional Sports." March 30, 2006 - Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig announces an investigation of steroid use among pro baseball players. Former U.S. Sen. George Mitchell will lead the investigation. May 31, 2006 - Cyclist Lance Armstrong, seven-time winner of the Tour de France, is cleared of doping allegations connected to the 1999 Tour de France by the International Cycling Union. August 22, 2006 - The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency bans sprinter Justin Gatlin for eight years after he tests positive for banned substances a second time. Gatlin is also forced to forfeit his 100-meter world record. November 2, 2006 - Track coach Trevor Graham, former trainer of Marion Jones, Justin Gatlin and others, is indicted by a federal grand jury for lying to investigators during the BALCO investigation. May 25, 2007 - 1996 Tour de France winner Bjarne Riis admits using performance-enhancing drugs to win his title. He is the first Tour de France winner to admit to doping. September 20, 2007 - A U.S. arbitration panel strips cyclist Floyd Landis of his 2006 Tour de France title, and bans him for two years after a positive test for synthetic testosterone after the race. He is the first winner in the race's 105 year history to lose his title due to doping. October 5, 2007 - Former Olympic gold medalist Marion Jones pleads guilty to lying to a federal investigator about taking banned substances. October 15, 2007 - Floyd Landis appeals the loss of his Tour de France title to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Switzerland. The panel later upholds the doping charges against Landis. November 15, 2007 - A federal grand jury indicts baseball player Barry Bonds on perjury and obstruction of justice charges. The indictment is in connection to an investigation of the use of steroids in major league baseball. December 7, 2007 - Barry Bonds pleads not guilty to charges of perjury and obstruction of justice and is released on $500,000 bond. December 12, 2007 - The IOC strips former gold medalist Marion Jones of the five medals she won at the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, Australia. December 13, 2007 - The Mitchell Report is released, linking several current and former Major League Baseball players such as Barry Bonds, Roger Clemens, Andy Pettitte, Eric Gagne, Gary Sheffield, and Paul Lo Duca to alleged use of performance-enhancing substances. January 11, 2008 - Marion Jones is sentenced to six months in prison after pleading guilty in October 2007 to lying to investigators about her steroid use. January 15, 2008 - The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee holds hearings in response to the Mitchell Report on doping in Major League Baseball. February 8, 2008 - Former NY Mets clubhouse employee Kirk Radomski is sentenced to five years probation and an $18,000 fine. He pled guilty in 2007 to distributing steroids and laundering money between 1995 and 2005. In exchange for probation, Radomski agrees to cooperate with government investigations into steroid use in sports. February 13, 2008 - In a hearing before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Roger Clemens denies ever taking performance-enhancing drugs. February 27, 2008 - Representatives Henry A. Waxman and Tom Davis ask the Justice Department to investigate possible perjury in the testimony of Roger Clemens. March 7, 2008 - Former sprinter Marion Jones reports to the Federal Medical Center Carswell in Fort Worth, Texas to begin serving a six-month sentence for lying to federal prosecutors about her steroid use. February 9, 2009 - New York Yankees baseball player Alex Rodriguez admits to using performance-enhancing drugs from 2001 to 2003 while playing for the Texas Rangers. February 10, 2009 - Houston Astros shortstop Miguel Tejada is charged with making false statements to Congress. He is accused of lying during his 2005 testimony to investigators looking into steroids in Major League Baseball. February 11, 2009 - Miguel Tejada pleads guilty to the misdemeanor charge of lying to Congress. In March 2009 he is sentenced to one year of unsupervised probation. May 7, 2009 - The Office of the Commissioner of Baseball announces that outfielder Manny Ramirez of the Los Angeles Dodgers is suspended for 50 games for a violation of Major League Baseball's Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program. The suspension of Ramirez is effective immediately. January 11, 2010 - Mark McGwire, who broke Roger Maris' single season home run record in 1998, admits to using steroids during his career. August 19, 2010 - Former pitcher Roger Clemens is indicted on charges of lying to Congress in 2008 when he said he never used performance-enhancing drugs. April 2011 - The Swiss-based Court of Arbitration for Sport appoints a panel to try 2010 Tour de France winner Alberto Contador's doping case. If Contador is found guilty, he could lose his title and be banned for two years. April 13, 2011 - Bonds is convicted of one count of obstruction of justice. A mistrial is declared on three counts of perjury after jurors report they can't reach an agreement. July 6, 2011 - Jury selection begins in the Clemens' trial. A mistrial is declared on July 14. October 6, 2011 - The Court of Arbitration for Sport rules that athletes suspended for doping cannot be barred from competing in the next Olympics if they have served their ban. November 22, 2011 - Major League Baseball and the MLB Players Association agree to a new five-year contract that includes among others the following stipulations: starting with 2012 Spring Training, all players will be subject to HGH blood testing for reasonable cause at all times during the year. December 11, 2011 - Ryan Braun, Milwaukee Brewers left fielder and National League's 2011 "Most Valuable Player", tests positive for a performance-enhancing drug, according to an ESPN report. Braun denies any "intentional violation" of MLB rules and is appealing the result through arbitration. February 6, 2012 - Three-time Tour de France winner Alberto Contador is stripped of his 2010 Tour de France title and retroactively banned from cycling for two years by the Court of Arbitration for Sport. February 23, 2012 - A baseball arbitration board throws out the 50-game suspension handed down to Milwaukee Brewers outfielder Ryan Braun. This is the first successful appeal of a suspension under Major League Baseball's anti-drug policy. June 14, 2012 - The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency confirms that it is opening proceedings against Lance Armstrong and five former teammates. While Armstrong denies the charges, he has been suspended by the World Triathlon Corporation. June 18, 2012 - Former baseball pitcher Roger Clemens is found not guilty of lying to Congress during an investigation of steroid use among major league players. August 17, 2012 - The IOC disqualifies American cyclist Tyler Hamilton from the events he competed in at the 2004 Athens Olympic Games and strips him of his gold medal in the Men's Individual Time Trial. Hamilton was disqualified after he admitted to having used performance-enhancing drugs in advance of the Games in a letter sent to the IOC. August 24, 2012 - USADA strips Lance Armstrong of all Tour de France titles and bans him for life from competition. October 10, 2012 - The US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) 202 page report on Armstrong is released. The report places Armstrong at the center at the center of a sophisticated doping program during the years he dominated cycling. Armstrong has always denied the allegations. October 19, 2012 - A former Pittsburgh Steelers team doctor, Richard Rydze, is arrested and accused of conspiracy to distribute anabolic steroids, human growth hormone and painkillers to patients. January 10, 2013 - MLB and the MLB Players Association announce their joint drug prevention program will begin testing for human growth hormone during the 2013 regular season. January 17, 2013 - The IOC strips cyclist Lance Armstrong of the bronze medal he won at the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia. January 17, 2013 - In an interview with Oprah Winfrey, Lance Armstrong admits to using banned performance-enhancing drugs during his cycling career. March 22, 2013 - MLB files a lawsuit against Florida anti-aging clinic Biogenesis of America and several of its employees, accusing them of providing banned performance-enhancing drugs to baseball players. June 5, 2013 - According to an ESPN report, Biogenesis of America clinic founder Anthony Bosch, who allegedly supplied baseball players with performance-enhancing substances, will cooperate in the MLB investigation. MLB is set to suspend some 20 players in the coming weeks, including New York Yankee third baseman Alex Rodriguez and Ryan Braun of the Milwaukee Brewers. July 14, 2013 - Tyson Gay, a former world champion sprinter from the United States, announces he was told by the USADA that an "A" sample from an out of competition test taken in May came back positive, and that he has pulled out of the August world championships in Russia. Also, Jamaican sprinter and former world-record holder Asafa Powell says he was caught for using the banned stimulant oxilofrine that showed up in a test at June's Jamaican trials. July 22, 2013 - Major League Baseball player Ryan Braun has been suspended without pay for the rest of the 2013 season for violating the league's drug policy, Commissioner Bud Selig announces. August 5, 2013 - Major League Baseball suspends New York Yankee Alex Rodriguez for 211 regular-season games through the 2014 season. Rodriguez says he plans to appeal. Twelve other players have accepted 50-game suspensions without pay for their ties to the Biogenesis scandal. August 17, 2013 - Major League Baseball suspends Kansas City Royals Miguel Tejada for 105 games without pay for testing positive for an amphetamine. February 18, 2014 - A league spokesman announces that Major League Baseball has dismissed its lawsuit against Anthony Bosch and Biogenesis.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/04/04/us/maya-angelou-fast-facts/index.html	us	Maya Angelou Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/04/04	Thursday Apr 4 03:10:12 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here is a look at the life of Grammy-winning author and poet Maya Angelou. Personal:  Birth date:  April 4, 1928 Death date: May 28, 2014 Birth place: St. Louis, Missouri Birth name: Marguerite Annie Johnson Father:  Bailey Johnson, a doorman Mother:  Vivian (Baxter) Johnson, a nurse Marriages: Paul de Feu (1973-1980, divorced); Tosh Angelos (1950-1952, divorced) Children:  Clyde "Guy" Johnson, 1944 Education: Attended California Labor School, 1942 Other Facts:  Author, poet, actor, singer, songwriter, dancer, playwright, historian, director, civil rights activist and teacher. Fluent in six languages: English, French, Spanish, Italian, Arabic and West African Fanti. First African-American female member of the Directors Guild of America. Studied dance with Pearl Primus in New York. Won three Grammy awards. Nominated for a Tony Award. Timeline:  1931 - Her parents divorce and Angelou is sent, with her brother Bailey, to live with paternal grandmother, Annie Henderson, in Stamps, Arkansas. 1935 - Angelou and brother Bailey move to St. Louis to live with their mother. 1936 - Is raped by her mother's boyfriend, Mr. Freeman. After Angelou confides about the rape to her brother and testifies at Freeman's trial, Freeman is found beaten to death, apparently at the hands of Angelou's uncles. Stops speaking in public for five years as a result of her guilt and belief that her words had caused Freeman's murder. This is the basis for her first autobiography, "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings." 1942 - While a high school student, studies drama and dance on scholarship at the California Labor School, a college for adults. Drops out to become San Francisco's first female African-American cable car conductor. 1950s - Nightclub performer at the Purple Onion in San Francisco, Mr. Kelly's in Chicago, and Blue Angel and Village Vanguard in New York. 1954-1955 - Tours Europe and Africa as Ruby in a State Department-sponsored production of "Porgy and Bess." Also, teaches modern dance in Italy and Israel. 1957 - Her only recorded album, "Miss Calypso," is released. 1960 - Writes, produces, directs and performs in a musical revue, "Cabaret for Freedom," to raise money for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). Succeeds Bayard Rustin as the northern coordinator for the SCLC. 1961-1962 - Moves to Cairo, Egypt, and becomes associate editor of the Arab Observer. 1963-1966 - Moves to Ghana as an assistant administrator for the School of Music & Drama at the University of Ghana and also works as feature editor for the African Review. 1970 - "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" is published. It is later broadcast on national television in 1979, with a script and musical score written by Angelou. 1972 - Nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for "Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'fore I Diiie." 1972 - Becomes the first African-American woman to have an original screenplay produced as a movie for "Georgia, Georgia." 1975 - Appointed to the Bicentennial Commission by President Gerald Ford. 1975-1976 - Member of National Commission on the Observance of International Women's Year. 1977 - Appears in the television mini-series "Roots." 1981 - Appointed lifetime chair as Reynolds Professor of American Studies at Wake Forest University. January 20, 1993 - Recites her poem "On the Pulse of Morning" at the inauguration of Bill Clinton, becoming the second poet to participate in a president's inauguration after Robert Frost read at President John F. Kennedy's 1961 ceremony. February 1993 - Wins Grammy for Best Spoken Word or Non-Musical Album for "On The Pulse Of Morning." March 1995 - Wins Grammy for Best Spoken Word or Non-Musical Album for "Phenomenal Woman." October 16, 1995 - Recites poem "From a Black Woman to a Black Man" at the Million Man March in Washington. 1998 - Film directorial debut for "Down in the Delta." 2000 - Receives the National Medal of Arts. February 2002 - Wins Grammy for Best Spoken Word Album for "A Song Flung Up To Heaven." 2006-2010 - Hosts a weekly show for Oprah Radio on Sirius XM Radio, formerly XM radio's "Oprah and Friends." January 21, 2008 - Is the keynote speaker for the Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebration at Virginia Tech. February 15, 2011 - Awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama. August 30, 2011 - Angelou is critical of the new Martin Luther King Jr. memorial on the Mall in Washington, DC. She says the paraphrased quote about King being a drum major for peace, justice and righteousness makes him sound like an "arrogant twit." Federal officials later announce that the controversial inscription will be removed. 2013 - Her eighth autobiographical book, "Mom & Me & Mom", a tribute to her mother and grandmother, is published. May 28, 2014 - Passes away at her home in North Carolina.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/sport/football/javier-hernandez-mexico-world-cup/index.html	iSport	Javier Hernandez: Mexico out to make World Cup history - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 10:25:03 EDT 2014	Join the World Cup conversation at CNN Facebook Pulse (CNN) -- Mexico is not heading to Brazil simply to make up the numbers -- it's looking to go all the way. That is the belief of Javier Hernandez, who has his eyes firmly fixed on leading his side all the way to the World Cup final. El Tri face a challenge to get out of a tricky group, which also features Cameroon and Croatia in addition to host and tournament favorite, Brazil. But Hernandez insists a nation which has never gone further than the quarterfinal stage in the past can make history this time around. "Our mind is on the final, really," he told CNN. "I think every national team has the same possibilities to win the World Cup. "It's a very short competition and anything could happen, so our goal is to get into the final and to try to win it. "There's no point going to a competition and just thinking: 'We're just going to play three games.' That's not the point if you want to make history." The striker will take heart from his side's performance at the 2010 World Cup after it progressed from a group which included France, Uruguay and host nation, South Africa. The 25-year-old scored twice in the tournament before Mexico eventually crashed out to Argentina with a 3-1 defeat in the second round. Should El Tri get that far this time around it could come up against reigning champion Spain or 2010 runner-up Netherlands in the last 16. Hernandez, though, says the big boys of the tournament hold no fear for a nation competing at their sixth straight World Cup. "If you want to win the World Cup you need to play against the best national teams in the world. We know that if we have a very good group stage and get through, obviously the teams that we could face in the next match are going to be very difficult," he said. "But there's no easy national team really -- you need to play against the best." Mexico's most impressive World Cup campaigns to date came in 1970 and 1986, where they made the quarterfinal stage as the tournament's hosts on both occasions. And Hernandez feels that with Brazil sharing similar conditions to his country of birth, El Tri have a better chance than many this summer. "It's normal and it's logical that Mexico are going to find it a little bit easier because of the way the weather in Brazil," he added. "It's quite similar to our country, and obviously for countries like England or other European countries which are colder or have a different type of weather, it's going to be a little more difficult for them." Hernandez joined Manchester United in 2010 after impressing as a youngster at local Mexican side Club Deportivo Guadalajara, where he came through the youth ranks. Despite enjoying initial success at Old Trafford, he found life tough under manager David Moyes last season and was limited to just six Premier League starts. But Hernandez, who has racked up 58 caps for Mexico since making his international debut in 2009, is determined to put a frustrating campaign behind him and get back to his best in Brazil. "It was a very difficult year for me especially because I couldn't play and I couldn't help my team," he said. "But my head now is 100% on the national team. I'm very focused and very concentrated on this World Cup. "I want to do my best, to give my best to my teammates and to the coaching staff. Like I told you, [I want] to try and make history in this World Cup." Hernandez was reticent about his future at United and refused to talk about it while on international duty. But when asked to comment, he said: "I think there is going to be time after [the World Cup] that I am going to speak about that." Read: Dzeko urges world to help Bosnia Read: Vieira has no regrets over Senegal choice Read: The 'baby' goalkeeper who became a hero  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/06/14/sport/football/brazil-confederations-cup-neymar-pele-football/index.html	iSport	Soccer stars haunted by 'Brazil's Hiroshima' - CNN.com	2013/06/14	Friday Jun 14 09:17:40 EDT 2013	Editor's note: Ready to Play debuts on CNN International on July 26 at 1530 GMT. (CNN) -- Rio de Janeiro's Maracana Stadium was packed to the rafters: 200,000 expectant spectators prepared to celebrate Brazil's first World Cup triumph and its arrival as a football superpower. It was the moment the South American country's love of the game, and of its most prestigious competition, became a dangerous obsession. July 16, 1950, the final match of the final group stage. Brazil faced Uruguay, and a draw would be enough to see the host crowned as champion. The champagne was put on ice when winger Friaca gave Brazil a 1-0 lead just after halftime. But the samba beat was silenced when Juan Alberto Schiaffino equalized for Uruguay -- and then the unthinkable happened. World Sport Presents: Racism in Football Uruguay came forward, Brazil goalkeeper Barbosa stepped off his line, Alcides Ghiggia scuffed a low shot towards the near post ... and the ball nestled in the back of the net. Brazil had lost. A nation's hearts were broken. Lives were forever altered and a national obsession was born. The 63 years since have seen Brazil become football's dominant force. The five World Cups won by "A Selecao" is more than any other country in the quadrennial competition's 83-year history. But not one of Brazil's quintet of triumphs has banished the shadow cast by the failure of Moacyr Barbosa Nascimento and his teammates. "The idea the rest of the world has about Brazil, and perhaps Brazil has about itself to a certain extent, is that it is all about 'joga bonito,' it is all about the beautiful game," says Jonathan Wilson, journalist and author of "The Outsider: A history of the goalkeeper." Read: German football embraces Israel "Actually it is all about winning in Brazil, far more than anywhere else despite the perception," he told CNN. "There's no such thing as heroic failure in Brazil. "Barbosa was named goalkeeper of the tournament, but he was scapegoated in Brazil because of what happened in the final game. "He didn't get picked for the next couple of years. He was a very good goalkeeper, but all he is remembered for is that one mistake." The error which led to Uruguay's second goal hung over Barbosa until his death in 2000. But the saddest moment of his life, he said, was not in the final or its immediate aftermath. Read: Year Zero in football's racism fight? Some 20 years later, a woman in a supermarket pointed towards him and declared to the young boy by her side, "Look at him, son. He is the man that made all of Brazil cry." "Under Brazilian law the maximum sentence is 30 years," Barbosa remarked on his 79th birthday, just two weeks before he passed away. "But my imprisonment has been for 50 years." The disappointment looms large in Brazil's national psyche, and all the more so with the country to host the World Cup again next year for the first time since that fateful day. "Nelson Rodriguez, the playwright, spoke about 'Our Hiroshima," Wilson said. "It seems monstrously disproportionate and it is, but I think what he means is that it's Brazil's national disaster. Read: Mourinho the "Stable One"? "They've never been in a war, they've never really had a great disaster. They just expected to win. The newspapers on the morning of the game were saying 'Brazil World Champions.' " The newspapers were wrong. It is this weight which the present day team must carry as it prepares to host the Confederations Cup, a warmup event for the World Cup, which Brazil kicks off against Japan on Saturday. Once again the World Cup is coming to Brazil and once again a nation expects. "Everybody knows the bad experiences we had in the World Cup in Brazil in the '50s -- we lost, but now we have to recover," says Pele, one of football's greatest players and a triple World Cup winner with Brazil between 1958 and 1970. Barbosa's tale is a cautionary one for the current Brazil squad. A mistake by any player next year could be the costliest they ever make. Luiz Felipe Scolari, coach of the last Brazil team to lift the World Cup in 2002, was reinstated in November 2012 to inspire a floundering team. The results have been unspectacular. Scolari has won two, drawn four and lost one of his seven matches back at the helm and the team languishes in 22nd in the FIFA world rankings. A 2-2 draw with England in June was the first match at the refurbished Maracana, a stadium which is both a monument to Brazil's sporting prowess and a mausoleum for past failure. "We always have good players, but we don't have a good team right now," Carlos Alberto, captain of Brazil's World Cup winners of 1970, told CNN. "We don't have experience, the players are very young. "Everybody says to these players, 'You have to win, you have to win.' It's not good because they are young, they don't have the experience to play an international tournament." That 1970 team is often referred to as the greatest of all time, given the style and swagger with which it crushed Italy 4-1 in the final match of the Mexico tournament. The advent of color television made the players, bedecked in iconic vibrant yellow with green trim, appear as if soccer stars from another planet. Alberto does not think the current generation is yet capable of emulating his team's achievements, but he is backing his countrymen to succeed four years later. "They are going to take the experience of playing in the World Cup next year into 2018. In Russia, I bet you any money Brazil will win!" he declared. "Next year, if they get to the semifinals it is OK." Edu, a midfielder capped 15 times for Brazil between 2004 and 2005, shares Alberto's reservations. The former Arsenal player is concerned a change of management has disrupted a squad short on international experience. "We're not prepared yet," Edu, now director of football at Club World Cup winners Corinthians, told CNN. "We've changed the coach, which is not normal. "Usually a coach has four, five, six years to get used to his team. Scolari is lucky, because Brazil has a lot of players to build a good squad. But I'm not sure if they will be prepared enough for the World Cup. "The Brazilian team is not in the best moment." One player of whom a huge amount is expected is Neymar, a flamboyant attacker recently signed by Barcelona who is frequently hailed as "the new Pele." If Brazil is to finally win the World Cup on home soil, the fleet-footed, shock-haired attacker will have to prove he has shoulders broad enough to carry a nation's hopes. "Listen, winning the World Cup is very hard because it is a box of surprises. No doubt Brazil is one of the best, but this doesn't mean Brazil is going to win ... The best players in Europe, they are Brazilian," Pele told CNN. "In Brazil we have had a lot of excellent players like Zico, Tostao, Rivelino, Pele, Ronaldinho, but the last two years we have had Neymar. "He is very talented. I hope he has luck in Barcelona. I didn't like it so much because he used to play in my team, Santos, I lost a good player. He deserves to go to the best team. "I said to be the new Pele would be very difficult, because my mother and my father, they closed the machine (gestures). But no doubt he is one of the best players who we have in Brazil."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/opinion/hayden-sixties-political-change/index.html	opinion	Opinion: In the '60s, we did overcome - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 08:56:36 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Tom Hayden writes and advocates for peace, justice and the environment. A member of the editorial board of The Nation, he is author of 18 books and has been a visiting professor at many universities. He served 18 years in the California legislature. Hayden was a founder of the Students for a Democratic Society, and the principal author, in 1962, of the group's manifesto, the Port Huron Statement. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. Experience "The Sixties" on CNN starting Thursday, May 29, at 9 p.m. ET. (CNN) -- Shortly before he was murdered, Robert Kennedy was underlining this passage from Ralph Waldo Emerson: "When you have chosen your part, abide by it, and do not try to weakly reconcile yourself with the world. ... Adhere to your own act, and congratulate yourself if you have done something strange and extravagant, and broken the monotony of a decorous age."  These were the questions we all asked ourselves in the tumult of the 1960s: Whether to "weakly reconcile" to the status quo of our parents' world, or break the monotony by actions that might seem "strange and extravagant." Like sitting quietly at a Greensboro lunch counter while frothing racists pushed cigarettes into unbent necks. Or striking a match to our draft cards when we saw Buddhist monks burning themselves in Vietnam. Or coming out of one closet after another. Or facing baton-wielding troops driving jeeps with barbed wire toward 20-somethings at the 1968 Democratic National Convention I asked such questions in my own life back then. I grew up as a Catholic idealist whose innate curiosity drew me to investigative journalism. As a young man, I hitchhiked from Ann Arbor, Michigan, to Berkeley, California, in 1960 on the trail of the Beat Generation. I was most inspired by those young people of my generation who found a cause worth dying for on the civil rights battlefields of the American South. I interviewed a young Martin Luther King Jr. in 1960 while he picketed the Democratic convention in Los Angeles demanding a civil rights plank. Frankly, I wanted to get a front-page story. He was so patient and logical in answering my questions that it made me consider putting down my pen for a placard. Gradually my journalism became advocacy, my advocacy turned to activism. In 1962, I drafted the manifesto of the Students for a Democratic Society, or SDS, known as the Port Huron Statement, defining young people as agents of social change and calling for participatory democracy. I was enlisted as a Freedom Rider in Georgia, then became a door-knocking community organizer in the slums of Newark, New Jersey, and for 10 years an angry opponent of the Vietnam War. In eight years, I was transformed from being a student editor advocating for the Peace Corps to a dangerous menace in the mind of the FBI. The government responded to protests such as mine with accusations of terrorism and prosecution for conspiracy. As the repression grew, so did the length of my hair and my sympathies toward revolution. Similar to a natural birth, the birth of the '60s contained the joyous power of creation. And like all births, there was blood and danger. As Albert Camus wrote in "The Wager of Our Generation": "Yes, there was the sun and poverty. ... Next the war and resistance. And, as a result, the temptation of hatred. Seeing beloved friends and relatives killed is not a schooling in generosity. The temptation of hatred had to be overcome. And I did so."  This was a social revolution led by middle-class students but propelled by "the wretched of the Earth" in places such as Cuba, Vietnam, Belfast, Selma and Oakland. The rising started without a press release and little press notice. Allen Ginsberg read "Howl" at a poetry reading in San Francisco because he, along with Jack Kerouac and now-famous others, were having trouble getting poetry published. Neither was there any significant coverage of the February 1, 1960, sit-in in Greensboro, North Carolina. The four students at the Woolworth's counter had "no plan whatever." The student civil rights movement simply announced itself. Our elders' most common response to our actions was repression and force. "Howl" and its City Lights publisher Lawrence Ferlinghetti were prosecuted for obscenity in 1957. The FBI infested the campuses with thousands of agents searching for secret communists -- or, it turned out, gays, lesbians, philandering professors and alcoholics among the Berkeley faculty. The white-collar Mississippi State Sovereignty Commission worked with the hooded Ku Klux Klan to terrorize people wanting to vote. Despite these shocks and jolts, the first generation of activists in the 1960s stayed largely true to the hope that our elders were somehow mistaken, that the institutions could be reformed from within with just one more push. That hopeful pragmatism renewed itself with each new wave of protest, for example through the "Clean for Gene" volunteers tramping through the New Hampshire snow for moderate anti-war candidate Sen. Eugene McCarthy in 1968. But a deeper disillusionment sank in with each assassination of an elected leader, each photo of a napalmed Vietnamese child, each body dredged from Southern swamps and bayous. The "temptation of hatred" predicted by Camus seeped in with Vietnam. The first U.S. aircraft bombed North Vietnam in August 1964, even as some of us were burying the three civil rights workers killed in Mississippi. A few months later, after the SDS supported Lyndon Johnson because he promised to send no "young American boys" to Southeast Asia, the President did just that. More than 100,000 were sent into combat that first year. The Vietnam draft got young Americans' attention like nothing before. White students in the North sensed in that moment what it was like to be a black student in the South. And it must not be forgotten today, when lying politicians are taken for granted, that this was the first time a young generation elected a president who lied about sending its own brothers to their deaths after promising not to. If innocence wasn't dead already, its headstone now read: "Died in Vietnam, 1965." It was perhaps only accidental that the CIA began covertly distributing LSD in the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco the same month that those ground troops were shipped off to Vietnam. A mistake gone out of control, it later said. "Mistake" would become the designation for one dysfunctional disaster after another, Vietnam being the greatest. There were no apologies. The question remains: Why did so many 20-year-old students recognize that Vietnam was a mistake from the beginning -- from the first campus teach-ins of March 1965 -- while our liberal and conservative elders were so certain that it was a necessary, winnable and affordable war against communism? It was certainly not because the peaceniks and beatniks and women's libbers were connected to the Communist Party. Even the CIA rejected that Cold War reasoning in an exhaustive confidential 1968 report to the President.  We protested because we went through a collective near-death experience when our government and Moscow came close to nuclear war over Cuba in 1962. Like Cuba, we learned that Vietnam was a proxy in the Cold War between the United States and Soviet Union. We instinctively rejected the notion that the world could be divided into two superpower camps. We protested because of our civil rights experience in the South, where a kind of Third World land reform movement was taking place: Those sharecroppers in the Mississippi Delta looked awfully like the Vietnamese rice farmers in the Mekong Delta, inspiring our global solidarity. Muhammad Ali drew a compelling conclusion: "No Viet Cong ever called me nigger." Resistance to authority grew in the streets by 1966, based more on existentialism than ideology. For those of draft age, the only choices were to serve in a dubious war, take exile in Canada or risk an indefinite prison term. An underground grew up outside the law, including dissidents from draft evaders to Black Panthers on the run, priests and nuns, marijuana offenders and revolutionary saboteurs. The police and FBI caught few of them, and juries refused to rubber-stamp conspiracy charges in the cases of the Chicago Eight, the Catonsville Nine -- Catholics, including priests Daniel and Philip Berrigan, charged after they burned several hundred draft files -- and many more. On its side, the state in the late '60s deployed 1,500 federal Army intelligence officers to surveil 100,000 Americans; another 2,000 FBI agents were dispatched to disrupt legal organizations and "neutralize" protest leaders, myself included. In 1969 alone, I was grazed by death three times. First, my closest friend and co-author of the Port Huron Statement, Richard Flacks, was assaulted at his university desk in Chicago with a claw hammer and left for dead (he lived on). Second, Bay Area police used live ammunition without announcement in quelling the Berkeley People's Park protests; I watched as they killed a young man named James Rector and permanently blinded his friend Alan Blanchard as they sat on a rooftop. Third, during the Chicago conspiracy trial, the police shot and killed two Black Panthers in their sleep; one of them, Fred Hampton, had attended the trial daily as a liaison to Panther leader Bobby Seale. Using available data, one can chart a history of the '60s in a rising line, starting from peaceful protest, 1959-64, then a sharply ascending trajectory toward violence (bombings, police-Panther shootouts, Weather Underground, Kent State, etc.) until 1975, when the line flattens out once again (end of the Vietnam War, fall of Richard Nixon). That line illustrates the truth of John F. Kennedy's maxim that "those who make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution inevitable." There came a time in the '70s when the sun surprisingly broke through the darkest storms. Public opinion -- our parents' opinion -- began to loosen and shift. As late as 1969, the Gallup survey showed that 82% of our parents wanted student protesters expelled. Estranged from my own ex-Marine father for a decade, I learned later that he started shouting at the television that Nixon was a liar. Soon the Democratic Party opened its doors to dissenters. Voting rights were implemented in the South. Jimmy Carter gave amnesty to deserters. Charges were dropped against Daniel Ellsberg and Anthony Russo, who leaked the Pentagon Papers. In addition to the Watergate hearings, Congress woke up and held the first hearings into CIA and FBI law-breaking. The first -- and still strongest -- environmental laws were passed. The Supreme Court upheld Roe v. Wade, affecting millions of our generation, participation or voting rights were expanded to more of the excluded, to farmworkers, the disabled, the 18-year-olds. Vietnam vets mostly reconciled with Vietnam resisters around what we had in common: We had all been lied to. I entered the mainstream and was elected to serve in the California legislature for two decades despite Republican efforts to expel me. I teach at colleges today, where the students don't know me, unless their parents clue them in. The '60s ended not because we "grew up," or because we were effectively repressed, but because we won most of the crucial battles that had mobilized so many for so long. When the movement tides receded, most of us quietly re-entered everyday life in a culture we had changed irreversibly. Despite many premature requiems for the '60s, the decade continues to live as legacy. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/asia/south-korea-deadly-fire/index.html	world	Fire at South Korean hospital for elderly kills 21 - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 07:29:36 EDT 2014	Seoul, South Korea (CNN) -- A fire broke out at a South Korean hospital for the elderly early Wednesday, killing 21 people -- most of them patients in their 70s and 80s who had difficulty walking. Police said that after examining video footage, they had detained a patient suffering from dementia whom they suspect of starting the blaze in the southern county of Jangseong. The man, who is in his early 80s and was identified only by his surname of Kim, denies causing the fire, said Roh Gyu-ho, the head of Jangseong Police Station. The fire started shortly after midnight in an annex building of the hospital where scores of patients in fragile states were staying. Many of them were suffering from Alzheimer's disease, complications from strokes or other chronic diseases, the national news agency Yonhap reported, citing police and fire officials. Although the fire was put out quickly, many of the victims, unable to move around easily, were believed to have been killed by asphyxiation from toxic fumes that filled the second floor of the two-story building. Hospital apology Video from CNN affiliate YTN showed emergency workers treating victims pulled from the building. Twenty patients and a nurse died, the National Emergency Management Agency said, and eight people were injured, six of them seriously. The head of the hospital, Lee Hyong-seok, apologized Wednesday in front of television cameras. Police said they had closed-circuit television footage from the second floor of the annex building that led them to apprehend Kim as the main suspect. He was admitted to the hospital on May 1, Roh said. South Korea was shaken last month by the sinking of the ferry Sewol off the country's southwestern coast, which left more than 300 people dead or missing, most of them high-school students on a field trip. The accident has focused attention on shortcomings in safety standards in South Korea. On Monday, a fire at a bus terminal in Goyang, near Seoul, killed eight people and injured dozens more. Quebec elderly home fire: 'The heart of our village is now gone' CNN's K.J. Kwon reported from Seoul, and Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Paula Hancocks and Steve Almasy contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/sport/hidetoshi-nakata-world-cup-japan-football/index.html	iSport	Hidetoshi Nakata: Japan's misunderstood son returns from exile - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 10:26:27 EDT 2014	CNN's Human to Hero series celebrates inspiration and achievement in sport. Click here for videos and features (CNN) -- By the age of just 29, Hidetoshi Nakata was recognized by many as the greatest footballer Japan had ever produced. So why the glum look? "To be honest with you, it was not my dream," Nakata admits, now, to CNN's Human to Hero series, as he reflects on the emotions he was feeling at his third World Cup, in Germany in 2006. The fans, the media, his teammates: no-one managed to get behind the dark designer sunglasses. No-one understood why -- at the end of a hard-fought defeat to reigning champions Brazil, which meant early elimination for Japan -- the usually stoic Nakata lay down on the turf at the Dortmund's Westfalenstadion and wouldn't get up. "It's unforgettable," he says now -- but still offers no more explanation. That night, his face cracked with pain, Nakata wept under the spotlights. Little-known to any of the traveling Japanese fans assembled in the terraces that evening, Nakata -- a player just reaching the height of his powers -- had made a secret decision, six months before, to walk away from it all. Today  When Nakata arrives to talk about World Cups and what he has been doing for the last eight years, he's nattily dressed -- leather jacket, smart slacks, brightly-colored socks -- and even when out on the pitch, he juggles the ball on expensive-looking designer leather pumps. It's not for nothing that he gets described as Asia's answer to David Beckham. Like Beckham, the hairstyles are now more restrained -- the attention-demanding red spikes are long gone -- and like the English superstar, his reputation continues to extend far beyond his home country: both as Japan's most gifted footballing export and an ambassador for Tokyo's fashion industry. It took eight years in the wilderness -- first wandering across the globe on a meandering journey of self-discovery that he estimates covered close to a hundred countries from Tanzania to Turkmenistan -- but Nakata seems to have found himself. "All my life, I played just football. I didn't know what the world was like outside of football," he explains. "I wanted to know what's happening now in the world, and what I could do for the world." In his time away, Nakata -- now 37 -- appears to have resolved some of the contradictions that once made him the misunderstood man of Asia's rising footballing generation. Like, why did the flamboyantly dressed star -- followed wherever he went by battalions of newly galvanized Japanese soccer fans and screeching admirers, a man who led the first generation of sports stars to share their lives on the internet -- plead so strongly for privacy? And why did a player whose evident love of the game changed perceptions of football in Asia give it all up? Having crossed the world looking for answers, he's finding them closer to home. The one-time Calvin Klein underwear model who, for years, fought to escape his native country's media, has returned home with the aim to visit each of Japan's 47 prefectures, hoping to reconnect with the "real" people he is getting to know. "So many people, so many friends asked me about Japan but I couldn't answer," he says. "In the end, I just realized I didn't know about Japan." Today, fashion takes a back seat -- although he still boasts an unmistakable, if now lower-key style -- and the focus is on the traditional craft of his new job as a sake maker and self-appointed ambassador for Japanese culture abroad. "I have decided to travel in Japan to learn Japanese culture. So, last five years, I have been traveling all the prefectures in Japan, meeting craftsmen, farmers, sake makers and trying to see what are the best hotels and restaurants ... you know, just to tell my friends." Nakata the player  Nakata arrived on the world stage at France '98 -- a willowy, nimble 21-year-old with a peroxide orange crop of hair. He brought with him the Asian Footballer of the Year title (which he would win again the following year) and a defined reputation as a prickly interviewee off the field. His performances for Japanese J-League club Bellmare, and five goals for the national team in qualification for Japan's historic first World Cup, had demonstrated a strong dribbling game and knack for ghosting into the penalty area to score goals. "The first match was against Argentina, which was very difficult -- but at the same time I didn't have anything to lose," he recalls. Flying at full-tilt, making mazing runs through nano-scale gaps in the Argentine defense in the second half, Nakata looked like the rare sort of player who could make the difference even against the world's best opposition. He's a player who "never really had problems playing under pressure," he admits. "I had a lot of motivation and, just like a small kid, it's just having great toys to play with." Journey to Italy Despite losing 1-0 in that match (and succumbing to one-goal losses in both the other group games) the debutants became favorites among neutrals for their classy, ball-down, passing play and desire to take games to vastly more experienced opponents -- typified by Nakata. The next season would see him whisked off to newly-promoted Serie A hopefuls Perugia for $4 million amid reported bids from Manchester United, as he became just the second Japanese footballer to play in Italy's top division. Critics screamed that the Umbrian club had bought a novelty act -- a flash in the pan, buoyed by World Cup excitement. Nakata responded with silence off the field and by blowing away expectations on it -- starting with two goals in a 4-3 loss to champions Juventus on the opening day of the season. "Going to Italy from Japan, obviously, culturally they are totally different, so it was very difficult to learn the Italian language and the lifestyle as well," Nakata says. "But football is always the same -- football is football all over the world -- so I was just concentrating to play football." He scored 10 times in his first season and soon earned a $29.5 million transfer to Fabio Copello's title-challenging Roma side. In the final stretch of the 2000-01 season, he helped Roma come from 2-0 down against a Zinedine Zidane-inspired Juve, scoring a spectacular strike before another long-range attempt led to the equalizer. The result proved crucial as Roma secured just its third league title since forming in 1927, and it earned Nakata another big-money move to Parma -- where he won the Italian Cup the following season, scoring a crucial late away goal in the first leg of the final against Juventus. The joy of football His next two World Cup finals would take him from that highest high to the lowest low. In 2002, Japan and South Korea co-hosted as the tournament came to Asia for the first time. "It was very special because all the population in Japan was really expecting something," Nakata says. "So we had to pass through (the group stages) for sure, even though we lost all three games in the 1998 World Cup." After a draw against Belgium and a 1-0 win over Russia, Japan faced Tunisia in the final group game with all four teams still able to qualify. Heading into the last 15 minutes, the host nation had struggled to break through, but led 1-0 thanks to a reflex strike from substitute midfielder Hiroake Morishima. When fellow replacement Daisuke Ichikawa broke down the right and floated a high ball toward the back post, Nakata, with a sharp header, sent Japan through at the top of the group. "When we came out from the stadium, there were so many people outside the stadium clapping their hands and it seemed like all of Japan were there. And we were so proud of ourselves." Love lost The years leading to the next World Cup would be characterized by full-blown "Nakatamania" -- perhaps apt for a man who was inspired to play the game as a child by the popular Japanese cartoon character "Captain Tsubasa."  Wherever he traveled in Italy, a corps of 20-or-so Japanese reporters followed -- sending back bulletins on his health, his hairstyle, and any hint of a scoop about his private life. The onlookers would have to be dragged away from training sessions and even friendlies against amateur sides would be beamed across the world to be shown live in Japan. Books about him sold in the hundreds of thousands. Nakata had long since stopped talking to the press -- whose tabloid intrusions and tired questions had riled him as a young player in Japan. Instead he talked through his website Nakata.net, which was swamped with 15 million hits a day. All this attention was not missed by clubs. The reports of offers from Manchester United in 1998 had set off the uneasy relationship between Nakata the midfield maestro and -- in the words of the New York Times' Paddy Agnew -- the "one-man tourist attraction and a small merchandising gold mine" he represented to owners. The rumors that year claimed the bids were backed by United shareholder Rupert Murdoch's BSkyB satellite TV company with an eye to opening up deals in east Asia -- without team boss Alex Ferguson's knowledge. For years to follow, any club where Nakata pulled on the jersey could watch tens of thousands of replicas fly out the shop -- mostly to Japanese tourists. Wherever he went, fans and press asked whether talent or commercial interests justified his presence. Why he walked After two and a half seasons at Parma, he went to Bologna and Fiorentina before finally ending up in England in August 2005. However, it was not in Manchester, or London -- Nakata signed for distinctly unfashionable Premier League club Bolton Wanderers on a loan deal. The northern town -- not far from Manchester, but better known as the birthplace of the ice cream wafer sandwich than for its fashion and culture credentials -- represented even more of a culture shock to Nakata. "It was difficult to adapt to," he would later explain in an interview with men's style magazine GQ. Under manager Sam Allardyce, Nakata was pinned uncomfortably into a rigid 4-4-2 system and rarely allowed to wander freely, as he did at his best. After six months, his love for the game faded, and he made his secret pact to retire. Japan again Despite that early end to his top-level career, Nakata has always traveled with a pair of boots in his suitcase. He'll be at the next World Cup -- backed by his sake brand, to show off the Japanese culinary craft and alcohol making he's learned about on his travels -- and he'll often be found playing in charity matches with old footballing friends from Italy and Japan. Now he sees the game as a way to get to know people -- and, perhaps, for people to finally get to know him. "I think football is huge. I think football is the best tool to communicate with other people, to connect the people," he says. "It's beyond the countries, it's beyond languages. "Football is the biggest thing to share, to connect the entire world so ... even outside the stadium, I can play football to connect the people." Read: Street kid to World Cup 'legend' Read: World Cup winner with 'two hearts' Read: Iron Curtain no barrier for Baltacha Read: Leading Nigeria out of darkness Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/california-killing-spree-legislation/index.html	us	California lawmakers push 'gun violence restraining order' - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 03:32:33 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The mass killing near Santa Barbara, California, has prompted a proposal to create a "gun violence restraining order" that would temporarily bar a mentally unstable person from buying and possessing firearms after family, partners or friends call police. State Assemblyman Das Williams, a Democrat from Santa Barbara, said Wednesday that the legislation is designed to prevent mass killings similar to last weekend's rampage that left seven people dead, including the suspected killer, in Isla Vista, the off-campus student community for the University of California at Santa Barbara and the local community college. The proposed law would create a system where family members, friends and intimate partners could call police to intervene with troubled loved ones. Law enforcement would be able to investigate threats and ask a judge to issue an order prohibiting firearms purchases and possession, according to Williams and state Assemblywoman Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley), who both announced the legislation. Williams acknowledged that gun rights advocates are certain to challenge the proposal, but he contended the legislation would balance rights because a mentally unstable person would be entitled to a court hearing to overturn the order. "If I was in Congress, I would be much more daunted about getting this passed," Williams told CNN. "I think here in California, people have determined that enough is enough. We're sick and tired of people dying in mass killings. "It is not intrusive if the judge still has discretion over the matter at the end of the day," Williams said of the proposed law. "And we believe that in this case -- I'm not omniscient, I can't tell you for sure that the tragedy would have been avoided -- but what's unique about this case is that the mother and father knew there was going to be a problem, and at this point, in current law, there's no way for them to do something about it." Williams was apparently referring to how a mental health agency had been concerned about Elliot Rodger, 22, the suspected killer in the weekend killings. The agency consulted one of Rodger's relatives and then called police to check on his welfare in April. Police visited Rodger but took no further action. On Friday, Rodger apparently killed himself after allegedly stabbing to death three people in his apartment and fatally shooting two women outside a sorority and a man inside a deli in Isla Vista. The legislators say there is no mechanism to limit firearm access in most cases involving an individual in crisis while that person is in mental health therapy, substance abuse treatment or anger management, the legislators say. Currently in California, family members may call police to intervene, but "if no crime has been committed, or the individual does not meet the criteria for an involuntary civil commitment to mental health treatment, there is essentially nothing that can be done to prevent that individual from purchasing firearms or to temporarily remove firearms from their possession during the crisis," the legislators said in a statement. CNN legal analyst Mel Robbins, a former public defender, echoed that current state law doesn't provide an intervention process for such scenarios. "There's no mechanism for the police or for the public or for a mental health professional to basically say, 'we need to take a look at this individual,' just like we might yank somebody's driver's license for acting recklessly," Robbins said. The legislation has a chance of being approved in California, Robbins said. "California has some of the toughest gun control laws in the country," Robbins said. CNN's Ashleigh Banfield contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/maya-angelou-death-reaction/index.html	us	'Phenomenal Woman' Maya Angelou remembered - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 04:02:35 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Those who knew Maya Angelou and others inspired by her life, wisdom and words were remembering her Wednesday. "Phenomenal Woman" -- the title of Angelou's poem celebrating the strength of women -- quickly trended worldwide on Twitter. Celebrity tweets also included "true inspiration," "hero" and "national treasure." Others needed more than Twitter's 140 characters to express their personal loss. Legendary author Maya Angelou dies at age 86 -- Oprah Winfrey called Angelou her "mentor, mother/sister, and friend since my 20's." "She was there for me always, guiding me through some of the most important years of my life," Winfrey said."The world knows her as a poet butat the heart of her, she was a teacher. 'When you learn, teach. When you get, give' is one of my best lessons from her." "She won three Grammys, spoke six languages and was the second poet in history to recite a poem at a presidential inauguration.But what stands out to me most about Maya Angelou is not what she has done or written or spoken, it's how she lived her life. She moved through the world with unshakeable calm, confidence and a fierce grace I loved her and I know she loved me. I will profoundlymiss her. She will always be the rainbow in my clouds." -- President Barack Obama called Angelou "one of the brightest lights of our time -- a brilliant writer, a fierce friend, and a truly phenomenal woman." "Over the course of her remarkable life, Maya was many things -- an author, poet, civil rights activist, playwright, actress, director, composer, singer and dancer," Obama said. "But above all, she was a storyteller -- and her greatest stories were true. A childhood of suffering and abuse actually drove her to stop speaking -- but the voice she found helped generations of Americans find their rainbow amidst the clouds, and inspired the rest of us to be our best selves. In fact, she inspired my own mother to name my sister Maya." -- President Bill Clinton said "America has lost a national treasure." "The poems and stories she wrote and read to us in her commanding voice were gifts of wisdom and wit, courage and grace," the former president said. "I will always be grateful for her electrifying reading of 'On the Pulse of Morning' at my first inaugural, and even more for all the years of friendship that followed." "Now she sings the songs the Creator gave to her when the river 'and the tree and the stone were one.'" -- President George W. Bush said Angelou was "among the most talented writers of our time." "Her words inspired peace and equality and enriched the culture of our country. We are grateful for the work she leaves behind, and we wish her the peace she always sought." -- Filmmaker Tyler Perry said Angelou was one of "a handful of people in my life who have moved me, inspired me, encouraged me, and helped mold the man I am today." "Her words and her spirit are too powerful to leave this earth with her passing. Her legacy and poems will take wings, forever landing at the foundation of anything that betters humanity. Dr. Maya Angelou will live on in all of us who called her a phenomenal woman, phenomenally." -- Music producer Quincy Jones, who collaborated with Angelou on two songs for the soundtrack of the 1968 film "For Love of Ivy," said this: "As an author and poet, Maya Angelou's ability to channel God's voice and express the feelings deep within all of humanity will never be matched by another. She gave us words when we could find none, and helped us to see clearly when the light was dimmest." -- Jim Caldwell, head coach of the NFL's Detroit Lions, knew Angelou from the days he coached football at Wake Forest, where she was a professor: "She was extremely impactful. You look at just the body of her work and what a difference that made for our society from a cultural standpoint, and from a social standpoint as well. She influenced a number of students and folks, like myself, who worked there at the university, who had the great fortune of coming into contact with her." -- Civil rights activist and former U.N. Ambassador Andrew Young called Angelou "an activist poet." "She was one of the most positive people on this planet-through her life, her wisdom, her poetry and prose she lifted the aspirations and nurtured the spirits of everyone she touched. She worked for Martin Luther King in the early days of the civil rights movement. She was a friend and confidante to Nelson Mandela and to me. Maya inspired young girls to grow into 'Phenomenal Women.' She walked with Kings, Presidents and Nobel Prize winners and never lost the common touch." -- Major League Baseball executive Frank Robinson said the league would honor Angelou with its 2014 Beacon of Life Award this Friday. "All of us at Major League Baseball mourn the loss of the incomparable Dr. Maya Angelou, who led a full and accomplished life and left an indelible impact on our society. Today we have lost one of our greatest voices, but Dr. Angelou's words will live on and will continue to inspire generations to come. With a heavy heart, the National Pastime will honor Dr. Angelou at this weekend's Civil Rights Game in a manner befitting her remarkable legacy." Celebrity Twitter reactions Angel. #RIPMayaAngelou The first book I read as a teenager, "I know why the caged bird sings". Felt like we knew her pic.twitter.com/inHEh9zIhs Rihanna: "Angel. #RIPMayaAngelou The first book I read as a teenager, "I know why the caged bird sings". Felt like we knew her" Ellen DeGeneres: "Today the world lost one of it's greatest gifts. I'm sending love to the friends and family of Maya Angelou." Pharrell Williams: "Saddened by the news of Maya Angelou's passing. A brilliant woman who contributed so much to the world. Her light will be sorely missed." "If you are always trying to be normal, you will never know how amazing you can be." Maya Angelou - who was utterly amazing. J.K. Rowling: "If you are always trying to be normal, you will never know how amazing you can be." Maya Angelou - who was utterly amazing." Common: "I was thinking about her lately. GOD Bless the Soul of one if my heroes. Dr Maya Angelou" Steve Harvey: "Sad to hear the news of Maya Angelou passing. She is a true inspiration and will be missed." Eva Longoria: "The world lost an incredible woman today who inspired me and millions of others. #RIP Maya Angelou" Terry McMillan: "We were fortunate to have Maya Angelou embrace our sense of self and humanity when many of us were losing or had lost faith." There are no words... #ripmayaangelou http://t.co/6wqKmCba8K Lenny Kravitz: "There are no words..." Pitbull: "The first time someone shows you who they are, believe them." Omar Epps: "RIP Maya Angelou! Thank you for sharing your gifts." Kellie Pickler: "RIP Maya Angelou - A woman of Grace, Wisdom, Kindness & Love...we can all learn from your beautiful..." Erik Estrada: "RIP Maya Angelou. Your words have changed peoples thinking & sometimes their behavior. Thank you for sharing your life with so many." Olivia Wilde: "RIP Maya Angelou, a badass woman who saw the impossible as merely a dare." Maria Shriver: "God bless @DrMayaAngelou. A woman who used her voice to raise up, inspire and educate. Her words will live on in everyone who reads them."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/opinion/robbins-mental-health-rodger/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Fix mental care system to stop the shootings - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 04:15:26 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Mel Robbins is a CNN commentator and legal analyst. Robbins is the Founder of Inspire52.com, a positive news website and author of "Stop Saying You're Fine," about managing change. She speaks on leadership around the world and in 2014 was named Outstanding News Talk Radio Host by the Gracie Awards. Follow her on Twitter @melrobbins. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Mel Robbins. (CNN) -- Here we are -- yet again. Barely a year passed since the massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, and a young man with a history of chronic anger and mental illness just killed six people and injured 13 others. In the YouTube videos and 137-page depraved diatribe he left behind, mass murderer Elliot Rodger made one thing very clear: His miserable life was everyone else's fault and he planned to make innocent people pay. He hated women and blamed them for rebuffing his advances. He hated the "stuck up" college students who didn't accept him. He even planned to kill his 6-year-old brother, whom he feared would be more popular with women than he had been. He made good on most of his threats. He stabbed three men to death in his apartment before taking his BMW to the streets, shooting and killing three more people and injuring 13 with firearms and his car. After a firefight, police found Rodger dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. Afterward, many people argued that we should focus efforts on eliminating misogyny. Cultural and institutional hatred of women is a major problem, but it's not the root cause of the rampage of a psycho who's been raging against the world since he was 8. Others blamed gun laws. But even if we toughen up our gun laws and work to eradicate misogyny, without fixing our mental health system first, we'll never stop another Elliot Rodger. Under our current mental health laws, at every turn, the adults did what the law specifies. The parents knew their son had major mental health problems and had him in treatment since he was in elementary school. They increased that treatment when he got worse as a teenager. According to Rodger's writings, multiple mental health professionals were treating him and prescribed him anti-psychotic drugs. The parents and the professionals were in contact with one another and notified authorities after Rodger had exhibited some alarming behavior. The police responded to requests from Rodger's family to check on his well-being and found him to be "apparently shy, timid, polite, well-spoken" and did nothing, as mandated by the law. California has tough gun laws, by U.S. standards. The Santa Barbara, California, Sheriff's Office reports Rodger bought his semi-automatic handguns legally. Only a criminal record, treatment in a mental institution or an involuntary commitment would have prevented him from buying weapons. None applied to him. Treatment for mental illness, however, does not prevent anyone in California from buying guns. That takes us back to mental health laws. How could someone as delusional, dangerous and depraved as Rodger fly under the radar, avoid being put in a hospital or involuntarily committed at some point during his 14 years in therapy? Because mental health laws allow patients the right to self-determination in their treatment of mental illness. That means we have a system of laws and policies that puts mental health decisions in the hands of the mentally ill. Rodger was free under the law to refuse to take his anti-psychotic medications. His parents could call the police when he made threats of violence on YouTube, but unless he was deemed an "immediate threat," nothing could be done. The police could show up and do a "welfare check," but they had no legal right to search his apartment and belongings, run a check through the gun registry or take his guns away without a warrant for probable cause. And when Rodger told police it was all one big "misunderstanding," his explanation determined whether he was going to be committed for treatment -- not the words of his parents, his YouTube videos nor the opinions of his mental health professionals. That's just plain stupid. We have a system that puts the mentally ill in charge of their mental health decisions. Come again? Under Section 5150 of the California Welfare and Institutions Code, you can only involuntarily commit someone who is an "immediate threat to himself or herself due to mental disorder" or "immediate threat to someone else's safety" -- and that's only for 72 hours. And once the 72 hour hold is over, if the person is not foaming at the mouth and threatening to harm someone or expressing thoughts of suicide or homicide, he or she is released. Then there's the other wrinkle: medical insurance and whether and just how much it will pay out for services. It makes no sense that a teenager who makes terrible threats then dismisses them as a "misunderstanding" gets a pass. I've heard friends with family members in the mental health system describe it as a "revolving door through hell." In fact, 75 million American families deal with mental illness, and it can take its toll, break up marriages and isolate people. And then there's the stigma. I suffer from anxiety. While it's not a "serious" illness, it gave me an insight into the social forces that work against seeking treatment. When our first child was born in 1999, I had a debilitating case of postpartum depression. Although I could carry a polite conversation, I also had panic attacks and "disassociation hallucinations." The idea that I could make medical decisions for myself in that state is absolutely absurd. Luckily, I had a husband and extended family members who would have institutionalized me had I had refused to choke down my Atavan and Zoloft cocktail every day. I got better. I've continued to take Zoloft for the past 15 years and to this day, certain family members still ask why I "feel the need" to medicate myself, usually with the implication that something's wrong with needing help for mental illness. We need to continually push mental health to the forefront of the national conversation. We need to do more about access to mental health services -- less than 50% of the people with serious mental illness have access to any treatment at all, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness. It's time we switch the balance of power back to the caregivers, the professionals and yes, to the police. We also need a lower standard than "imminent harm" for an involuntary hold in all states and a longer stay than just 72 hours. And, when we call upon the authorities to do a well-being check, we better give them the power, the tools and the authority to get a complete check done -- including a full search of the person's home and social media accounts. Without a change, the mentally ill and their families will be fighting their demons alone, and we'll be questioning once again why there are demons among us who commit unspeakable violence. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/06/opinion/kohn-benghazi-gop/index.html	opinion	Opinion: A guide to GOP's Benghazi obsession - CNN.com	2014/05/06	Tuesday May 6 07:37:55 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Sally Kohn is a CNN political commentator, progressive activist and columnist. Follow her on Twitter @sallykohn. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- What happened in Benghazi, Libya, was a tragedy -- not a scandal. And no amount of Republican witch hunting or wishful thinking will make it otherwise. Now a new e-mail "reveals" what was already plainly known, that the White House participated in crafting talking points in the aftermath of attacks in Libya and around the globe. Republicans claim the White House "politicized" the talking points. The irony, of course, is that Republicans have been desperate to politicize Benghazi from day one. Fueled by the relentless conservative message machine, it can be hard to have a reasonable discussion about Benghazi, one that relies on facts. So let's try to have that conversation here. What exactly are the Republican accusations regarding Benghazi? The main Republican critique appears to be that the White House and State Department politicized talking points given to U.N Ambassador Susan Rice, who spoke about the attacks on American TV five days later. Republicans argue the White House deliberately downplayed the involvement of al Qaeda and played up the spontaneous nature of the protests as a reaction to an anti-Islam video, to avoid tarnishing President Obama's national security record in advance of the 2012 presidential election. This, despite the fact that the White House talking points matched those produced by the CIA. Republicans also have criticized the Obama administration for not responding to the attacks more aggressively when they happened, though a bipartisan Senate investigation found that military resources simply weren't in position to help. Similarly, Rep. Darrell Issa, the Republican most aggressively pressing Benghazi accusations, says he has "suspicions" that Hillary Clinton gave "stand down" orders to stop military resources from deploying to Benghazi even though a Republican report to the Armed Services Committee says that no such "stand down" order was issued.   In addition, Republicans have criticized the Obama administration for not doing more to prevent the attacks, such as beefing up consular security. Yet it was the same House Republicans who initially denied the Obama administration's request for additional embassy security funding.  What do we believe actually happened that night in Benghazi?  The answer to that question depends on when you're asking it. We know that the killing of four Americans on September 11, 2012, including U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens, was in part the result of pre-coordinated terrorist activity. According to an extensive investigation by The New York Times, "The attack does not appear to have been meticulously planned, but neither was it spontaneous or without warning signs." The Times also reports that the attack was "fueled in large part by anger at an American-made video denigrating Islam."  But in critiquing the Obama administration's comments in 2012 in the moments during and after the Benghazi attack, what would seem more relevant is what the White House and intelligence community reasonably believed was happening. After all, at the same time as the unrest in Benghazi, violent outbursts very clearly in reaction to the anti-Islam video were going on in Egypt, Yemen and Sudan. The night of the Benghazi attacks, Al Jazeera reported they appeared to be spontaneous protests against the anti-Islam film. Of course we don't know the classified intelligence, but it would not seem preposterous to believe what was happening in Benghazi was more spontaneous protests rather than pre-planned terrorism. And even if affiliates of al Qaeda were suspected to be involved, it's not surprising that the intelligence community would not want to show its hand amid active efforts to track and capture those responsible. It was the CIA that removed the reference to al Qaeda, according to e-mails released to CNN by the White House.  Here is what Susan Rice said, four days later, that in retrospect seems so wildly misleading to conservatives: "Our current best assessment based on the information that we have at present is that, in fact, what this began as was a spontaneous, not a premeditated, response to what had transpired in Cairo. In Cairo, as you know, a few hours earlier, there was a violent protest that was undertaken in reaction to this very offensive video that was disseminated. "We believe that folks in Benghazi, a small number of people, came to the embassy toor to the consulate, ratherto replicate the sort of challenge that was posed in Cairo. And then, as that unfolded, it seems to have been hijacked, let us say, by some individual clusters of extremists who came with heavier weapons, weapons that, as you know, in the wake of the revolution in Libya, are quite common and accessible. And it then evolved from there." That seems not only responsibly cautious in the wake of a complicated and still-unfolding national tragedy, but strikingly accurate. But the talking points were edited! For political motivations! That's what talking points are, they are the way political figures on both sides of the aisle attempt to tell the facts in the most favorable light. That said, the CIA gave both parties in Congress the same "talking points" it prepared for Rice. And, as noted, there are plausible national security reasons for not wanting to show our entire intelligence hand amid an active investigation. This responsible caution stands in direct contrast, for instance, to the Bush administration deliberately distorting not only talking points but also actual intelligence reports for political purposes to justify the war in Iraq. Or consider that just hours after the Benghazi killings, even before the White House had made a statement, Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney condemned the Obama administration's response. Those talking points were definitely political. The talking points not only seem consistent with events on the ground at the time but with what we now know, per The New York Times and several congressional reports. Yet that hasn't stopped Sen. John McCain from suggesting that editing talking points amounted to a "cover-up" and Rep. Eric Cantor from saying the White House "misled" the American public. Can't we have an honest, open investigation and settle this once and for all? We have. Several times. And then some. So far, Politico reports, Republican congressional investigations on Benghazi have included "13 hearings, 25,000 pages of documents and 50 briefings." In a letter written in March 2014 responding to a request for information from a ranking Democrat in the House Armed Services Committee, the Pentagon notes: "The department has devoted thousands of man-hours to responding to numerous and often repetitive congressional requests regarding Benghazi, which includes time devoted to approximately 50 congressional hearings, briefings and interviews which the department has led or participated in. The total cost of compliance with Benghazi-related congressional requests sent to the department and other agencies is estimated to be in the millions of dollars." A bipartisan report by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence determined that "there were no efforts by the White House or any other executive branch entities to 'cover-up' facts or make alterations for political purposes." The report did say the attack could have been prevented and blamed the State Department, military and U.S. intelligence community for failing to do so. What difference does it make? Great question. And one taken from a quote by Hillary Clinton, made during her testimony on Benghazi to the House Oversight Committee. Conservatives use the line to suggest that Clinton is callous toward the loss of life in Benghazi. No. Here's the full context: Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wisconsin: "No, again, we were misled that there were supposedly protests and that something sprang out of that -- an assault sprang out of that -- and that was easily ascertained that that was not the fact, and the American people could have known that within days and they didn't know that." Clinton: "With all due respect, the fact is we had four dead Americans. Was it because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided that they'd go kill some Americans? What difference at this point does it make? It is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again. "Now, honestly, I will do my best to answer your questions about this, but the fact is that people were trying in real time to get to the best information. ... But you know, to be clear, it is, from my perspective, less important today looking backward as to why these militants decided they did it than to find them and bring them to justice, and then maybe we'll figure out what was going on in the meantime." "I take responsibility," Clinton said four days after the Benghazi attacks, before Susan Rice ever said a word. "I do feel responsible," Clinton reiterated at the hearings in January 2013. When things went wrong in Benghazi, the Obama administration took responsibility. But when Republicans have the facts wrong on Benghazi, they don't do the responsible thing and drop it. They keep pursuing their partisan witch hunt, wasting millions of taxpayer dollars desperate to smear Obama and 2016 presidential front-runner Clinton with anything that will stick. The facts on Benghazi simply do not undercut the Obama administration, but that won't stop Republicans from digging for mud. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.    
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/15/opinion/kohn-tara-cat-dog-attack/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Badass hero Tara shows cats rule - CNN.com	2014/05/15	Thursday May 15 11:08:09 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Sally Kohn is a CNN political commentator, progressive activist and columnist. Follow her on Twitter @sallykohn. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Apparently, cats do rule and dogs drool. What other conclusion could any human being with a heart draw from the video in which a little cat bravely and boldly saves a boy being attacked by a dog? Sure, dog people will try to argue otherwise. They'll point to pugs and sheepdogs and Shih Tzus and other examples of cuddly, loyal, nonviolent pups. But when's the last time you heard of a kid being viciously mauled by a tabby? I'm not saying all dogs are evil. But cats certainly don't get the credit they deserve. Think popular culture, the heroic dogs immortalized in our stories. There's Lassie. Benji. Rin Tin Tin. Old Yeller. Toto. Should we count White Fang? Anyway, can you think of a single famous fake cat hero besides Puss in Boots? And in real life, dogs get plenty of good press. Man's best friend and all of that. Cats are denigrated, treated as less than, relegated to old women and semi-ironic decorations on sweatshirts. Grumpy Cat. Or nasty and creepy, like Mr. Bigglesworth. Or the Siamese cats in "Lady and the Tramp" -- you know, the movie with the heroic dog couple. Or stupid, like Sylvester. "Dog lover" is a compliment. "Cat lady" is not. How refreshing to see not just another cat-in-a-cardboard-box video (though I love them, too) but a cat doing something, being brave, saving the day. Tara, the little cat in this video, isn't just a hero to that one child. Tara is a hero to cats and cat lovers everywhere, tired of being upstaged by the bigger, brawnier, droolier pets who can't even manage to use a litter box. Let's hope Tara inspires a generation of cat heroes around the globe -- as well as the rest of us, including those in children's literature and Hollywood -- so we no longer see cats just as lazy, fat Garfield-style layabouts, but ferocious, fierce daredevils. Move over, Superman. Tara, the movie, is coming to a theater near you soon. Cats love nothing more than to bask in the sun, literally. Maybe now it's time for cats to have their metaphorical moment in the sun as well. Go Tara! Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/01/opinion/ghitis-nigeria-kidnapped-girls/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Why no international effort for 200 kidnapped girls? - CNN.com	2014/05/01	Thursday May 1 03:41:33 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review. A former CNN producer and correspondent, she is the author of "The End of Revolution: A Changing World in the Age of Live Television." Follow her on Twitter @FridaGhitis. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- If it had happened anywhere else, this would be the world's biggest story. More than 230 girls disappeared, captured by members of a brutal terrorist group in the dead of night. Their parents are desperate and anguished, angry that their government is not doing enough. The rest of the world is paying little attention. The tragedy is unfolding in Nigeria, where members of the ultra-radical Islamist group Boko Haram grabbed the girls, most believed to be between 16 and 18, from their dormitories in the middle of the night in mid-April and took them deep into the jungle. A few dozen of the students managed to escape and tell their story. The others have vanished. (Roughly 200 girls remain missing.) The latest reports from people living in the forest say Boko Haram fighters are sharing the girls, conducting mass marriages, selling them each for $12. One community elder explained the practice as "a medieval kind of slavery." While much of the world has been consumed with other stories, notably the missing Malaysian plane, the relatives of the kidnapped girls in the small town of Chibok in northeastern Nigeria have struggled for weeks with no resources to help them. The Nigerian government allayed international concerns when it reported -- incorrectly -- that it had rescued most of the girls. But the girls were still in captivity. Their parents raised money to arrange private expeditions into the jungle. They found villagers who had seen the hostages with heavily armed men. Relatives are holding street protests to demand more help from the government. With a social media push, including a Twitter #BringBackOurGirls campaign, they are seeking help anywhere they can find it. Nigerians demand government do more to save abducted girls It's hard to imagine a more compelling, dramatic, heartbreaking story. And this is not a one-off event. This tragedy is driven by forces that will grow stronger and deadlier if the captors manage to succeed. I think of these girls as trapped in the rubble of a collapsed building. Their mothers and fathers try to dig them out with their bare hands, while the men who brought down the building vow to blow up others. Everyone else walks by, with barely a second glance. Perhaps this story sounds remote. But at its heart it is a version of the same conflict that drives the fighting in other parts of the world. These young girls, eager for an education, are caught in the crossfire of the war between Islamic radicalism and modernity. It's the Nigerian version of the same dispute that brought 9/11 to the United States; that brought killings to European, Asian and Middle Eastern cities; the same ideological battle that destroyed the lives of millions of people in Afghanistan; that drives many of the fighters in Syria and elsewhere. In Nigeria, the dispute includes uniquely local factors, but the objectives of Boko Haram sound eerily familiar. Boko Haram wants to impose its strict interpretation of Sharia -- Islamic law. It operates mostly in the northern part of Nigeria, a country divided between a Muslim-majority north and a Christian-majority south. Islamic rule is its larger objective, but its top priority, judging from the group's name, explains why it has gone after girls going to school. Boko Haram, in the local Hausa language, means roughly "Western education is sin." But women are just the beginning, and Boko Haram goes about its goals not only by kidnapping, but also by slaughtering men and women of all ages and of any religion. These militants view a modern education as an affront, no matter who receives it. In February, they burst into a student dormitory in the northern state of Yobe, where teenage boys were sleeping after a day of classes. They killed about 30 boys, shooting some, hacking others in their beds, slitting the throats of the ones trying to flee. In July, also in Yobe state, they shot 20 students and their teacher. The gruesome attacks are not restricted to remote areas. A few weeks ago, a bus bombing in the capital of Abuja killed more than 75 people. Boko Haram took responsibility. It was the deadliest terrorist act in the city's history. Boko Haram has killed thousands of people since 2009 and has caused a humanitarian crisis with a "devastating impact," causing nearly 300,000 to flee their homes, according to Human Rights Watch. Nigeria is a resource-rich nation whose people live in grinding poverty. It is also plagued with endemic corruption. That triple combination -- poverty, corruption and resource-wealth -- creates fertile ground for strife and extremism. And the instability in Nigeria sends tremors through a fragile region. Boko Haram keeps hideouts and bases along the border with neighboring countries Cameroon and Chad. This is an international crisis that requires international help. Is there anything anyone can do? Most definitely. First, it is urgent that the plight of these girls and their families gain the prominence it so clearly deserves. Global attention will lead to offers for help, to press for action. Just as the intense focus on the missing Malaysian plane and the lost South Korean ferry prompted other nations to extend a hand, a focus on this ongoing tragedy would have the same effect. Nigeria's government, with a decidedly mixed record on its response to Boko Haram, will find it difficult to look away if world leaders offer assistance in finding and rescuing the kidnapped girls from Chibok, and another 25 girls also kidnapped by Boko Haram in the town of Konduga a few weeks earlier. This is an important story, a wrenching human drama, even if it happened in a part of the world where news coverage is very difficult compared with places such as Malaysia, South Korea or Australia. The plight of the Nigerian girls should remain in our thoughts, at the forefront of news coverage and on the agenda of world leaders. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/20/opinion/kohn-protest-dont-ban-commencement-speakers/index.html	opinion	Opinion: The smarter way to protest college speakers - CNN.com	2014/05/20	Tuesday May 20 07:39:15 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Sally Kohn is a CNN political commentator, progressive activist and columnist. Follow her on Twitter @sallykohn. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Kudos to the rabble rousers in the Class of 2014 making waves across the country protesting the political views of commencement speakers. Your intentions are entirely in the right place, but you're going about it all wrong. It's understandable to want to protest the views and actions of Condoleezza Rice, a leading war monger in the Bush administration who backed policies that led to so many needless American and Iraqi deaths. There's a valid critique of how the International Monetary Fund and its leader, Christine Lagarde, actually harm poor nations with the economic conditions IMF loans impose. And the University of California at Berkeley was arguably extremely violent in its handling of Occupy protesters under the leadership of Chancellor Robert Birgeneau. All three leaders have canceled planned commencement addresses after protests by students at Rutgers University, Smith College and Haverford College respectively. Which doesn't accomplish very much, I'm afraid. The media story -- and thus the public discussion generally -- is now about free speech and the marketplace of ideas and whether today's college students are so intolerant of different viewpoints that they try and banish them altogether. We're discussing whether the Class of 2014 is too entitled when we should be talking about the failures of foreign policy in the Bush administration and appropriate police powers in a post-9/11 security state. Is the Class of 2014 too entitled? Not necessarily. But you might not be good organizers. So to those of you who haven't raised objections to commencement speakers yet, or who are getting a jump on 2015, here's some advice: Let them come. The most objectionable speaker you can imagine with a public policy reputation you find utterly detestable? Roll out the red mortar board and gown. Allow them to come. Nay, lure them. And then protest. Then the story will be about your message, not just your miff. And in the age of social media, that message will spread. Everyone's already futzing with their smartphones under their gowns anyway. How can you stage an effective protest at your graduation? Here are a few ideas. Spell out a message: Use masking tape to put a letter on each mortar cap, be sure to sit in the right order with your compatriots and at the right moment, send your message without saying a single word. Alternatively, you can achieve a similar effect by writing each letter on a manila file folder, folding each up and hiding it under your gown until the right moment. A great thing about this tactic is it forces you to get your critique down to its essence, which makes your message clear and easily shared by others. In a variation on this, students at Columbia University are planning a graduation protest placing pieces of red tape on their mortar boards to voice displeasure with the university failing to take certain steps to prevent sexual assault on campus. Stand up and turn around: Sometimes the most powerful speech comes in the form of silence. At the start of the commencement address, stand up and turn around. Ideally make sure you're not the only one -- that there are 20 or 200 people scattered throughout the graduating class who will start popping up one by one and stand silently, back to the speaker, in quiet but powerful protest. Especially if a large number of students oppose the speaker, this is a great way to put that on display. On the other hand, this doesn't work well with a small handful of protesters. Students at the University of Michigan organized such a protest in 2011 when Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder was their commencement speaker. Snyder had proposed more than $200 million in higher education budget cuts. Unfortunately, though, out of 5,500 graduates, only a few dozen stood in protest. Organize a picket: Sure it's old-fashioned, but it works: A few dozen students and allies with picket signs voicing their disapproval with the chosen commencement speaker. It helps if you have fliers to hand out to the audience attending the commencement, so you can at least inform them of why you're protesting even if they're not going to join you. In 2012, when George Washington University (my alma mater) gave an honorary degree to Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, a group of students protested Slim's business practices, which they argue have trampled on poor people and developing nations. The protest was small, but large enough to get covered by The Washington Post. Get creative: I'm not going to encourage anything illegal or even questionably immoral, but I will say that from streaking to well-timed releases of doves, there are plenty of ways to get attention for your protest. You're college students. You're a creative, think-outside-the-box bunch. Get some balloons and duct tape and tarantulas and do something inventive and attention getting. Effective protests aren't about anger. They're about spectacle. Make a spectacle. Bonus: Even the well-known folks often give boring commencement speeches, so if you can make your protest entertaining, your fellow students will be even more grateful. Booing and heckling are so 2004: And they're rude. I don't mean to sound condescending or anything, but one of the things you learn as you grow up in your political activist life is that cathartic isn't a synonym for strategic. In fact, they're often diametrically opposed. You might feel damn proud of yourself as you're being hauled off by campus security after screaming at some neoconservative commencement speaker but at least a third of the audience thinks you're an obnoxious jerk. And a third don't know why you were protesting and/or forgot that you even protested a second after it happened. The third who support you? They'll support you no matter what, so try a different tactic and see if you can broaden your support and engage and inform a wider swath of the audience. Activism isn't about self-expression. It's about changing hearts and minds and engaging more and more people in the fight for change. But you can't change those hearts and minds and get more people engaged if you aren't even heard in the first place. Invite those different opinions onto your campus, instead of dismissing them. We need to engage more with ideas we disagree with, that's what sharpens our own views and ideas. And if you do disagree, if you want to protest and do so visibly, make it count. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/kim-kardashian-kanye-west-wedding-instagram/index.html	entertainment	Kim Kardashian and Kanye West turn Instagram into wedding album - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 04:18:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It doesn't matter if your invitation to Kimye's wedding got lost in the mail: Instagram has got you. The social media site has turned into the unofficial wedding album of Kim Kardashian and Kanye West. The happy couple tied the knot this past weekend in Florence, Italy, and fans got to feel like they were right there for the action, thanks to the photos. The pair even released some of the first images of their ceremony on Instagram and Twitter. There was Kardashian, dressed in her custom white Givenchy gown with lace, kissing her new husband (also in Givenchy). There is also a shot of the newlyweds walking down the aisle after the ceremony. But the real fun apparently happened at the reception, where a wedding booth captured various images, including the now-Mr. and Mrs. West sporting matching leather jackets with the words "Just " on his and "Married" on hers. Kardashian posed with the man who made her wedding gown, Givenchy creative designer Riccardo Tisci, and Tisci in turn posted a picture of the back of Kardashian's dress showing its detail. He also posted a shot of her massive veil. Guests like LaLa Anthony, wife of professional basketball player Carmelo Anthony, got in on the action, posing with the new couple. But the image from the reception that has caused the most head-scratching has been the photo of Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith's 15-year-old son, Jaden, dressed in a white Batman outfit. Adding to the curiosity factor: Smith is photographed with Joe Francis of "Girls Gone Wild" fame and Kourtney Kardashian. "Wild," indeed.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/health/cynical-dementia/index.html	health	Cynicism linked to greater dementia risk - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 04:35:47 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Your spouse "had to stay late at work" -- are you skeptical? Do you think your friend doesn't like you if he cancels dinner plans? Do you suspect that your co-worker is putting her ambitions ahead of the team? Curmudgeons of the world, listen up: This line of negative thinking might actually hurt your health. A new study in the latest edition of Neurology, the journal of the of the American Academy of Neurology, found that cynical people have a higher likelihood of developing dementia. "There have been previous studies that showed that people who were cynical were more likely to die earlier and have other poor health outcomes, but no one that we could tell ever looked at dementia," said Anna-Maija Tolppanen, one of the study's authors and a professor at the University of Eastern Finland. "We have seen some studies that show people who are more open and optimistic have a lower risk for dementia so we thought this was a good question to ask." Studying cynicism Cynicism is a deep mistrust of others. Psychologists consider it a kind of chronic anger that develops over time. Specifically, the kind of cynicism researchers looked at involved doubting the truth of what people say and believing most people are motivated by self-interest rather than by what is best for the community. Village only for people with dementia The study tested 1,449 people with an average age of 71. The study participants took a test for dementia. A separate test measured their level of cynicism. Both tests are considered reliable by researchers. The cynicism test asks if the person agrees with statements like "Most people will use somewhat unfair reasons to gain profit or an advantage rather than lose it"; "I think most people would lie to get ahead"; and "It is safer to trust nobody." Those who agreed with the critical statements in the test were considered highly cynical. The people with the highest level of cynical distrust had a 2.54 times greater risk of dementia than those with the lowest cynicism rating. Researchers also examined the test results to see if the subjects who were labeled highly cynical died sooner than the others. But once compounding factors were screened out, they did not. Previous studies have shown a link between cynicism and an earlier death. Still, the new study does not prove that having a bad attitude causes bad health outcomes. To prove a causal relationship, a study would need randomized controlled trials to show that a reduction in cynical attitudes through treatment actually lowered the risk of bad health outcomes. More research is necessary to replicate the conclusions. But the results complement a wide body of research showing how "over time, people with highly cynical hostility do worse healthwise," said Dr. Hilary Tindle, assistant professor of medicine at the University of Pittsburgh. Why cynicism may be bad for you What might explain an association between cynicism and poor health? This is a complex issue that needs to be studied more, Tindle said. The relationships between psychological attitudes and health outcomes are very complex. "I can tell you from my clinical perspective from treating patients, I am absolutely certain that psychological attitudes can lead people down a road to poor health, because I see it every day when I talk to patients," said Tindle, who wrote the book "Up: How Positive Outlook Can Transform Our Health and Aging." Tindle was the lead author on a study that examined the health outcomes of over 97,000 women and found that cynical women had a higher hazard of cancer-related mortality. "The bottom line is that a high degree of anger/hostility/cynicism is not good for health," she wrote. Research shows cynical people also tend to smoke more, exercise less and weigh more. They also have a harder time following even the best medical advice, because their cynical natures won't let them believe what people tell them, Tindle said. Cat defrauded out of big inheritance when owner suffers dementia Past studies have also found that people who are cynical have a higher rate of coronary heart disease, cardiovascular problems and cancer-related deaths. Cardiovascular disease can contribute to dementia because it essentially damages small blood vessels everywhere in your body, including in your brain. Cynical people also tend to have greater stress responses, which means they typically have a higher heart rate, a higher blood pressure peak, and a tendency to have greater inflammation of their immune systems. Chronic inflammation is now known to be harmful to one's overall health and it is linked to everything from Crohn's disease to high cholesterol to even Alzheimer's. Do what makes you happy Can you come out of cynicism?  The good news is, being highly cynical is not a permanent state of mind. "I am also certain that people can learn to change -- they change every day in that they quit smoking, they lose weight, they cut ties in unhealthy friendships," Tindle said. "The ultimate message is people are not 'doomed' if they have cynical tendencies." So if your assumptions about people are making you angry and irritable, try having a little more trust. "All of us are capable of adopting healthier attitudes," Tindle said. "As a physician, I see people of all ages making positive change every day."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/27/opinion/kohn-gm-recall/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Conservatives are so wrong about corporations - CNN.com	2014/03/27	Thursday Mar 27 08:24:13 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Sally Kohn is a progressive activist, columnist and television commentator. Follow her on Twitter @sallykohn. (CNN) -- According to court documents that surfaced this week, General Motors' engineers knew about ignition-switch problems in the Chevrolet Cobalt as early as 2009. The company may have been aware of the dangers as early as 2005 soon after the first Cobalts rolled off the assembly line in 2004. Since 2009, at least a dozen deaths have resulted from the flaw in which, upon impact, the ignition switch slips out of the "on" position and thus prevented airbags from deploying. Last month, GM announced the recall of 1.6 million Cobalts. In a June 2013 deposition, Gary Altman, program engineering manager for the 2005 Cobalt, was asked whether GM made a business decision not to address the problem. "That is what happened, yes," said Altman. This news comes just a week after Toyota Motor Corporation announced it would pay $1.2 billion to settle pending criminal charges from the Department of Justice alleging Toyota covered up evidence of safety defects in its vehicles. "The private sector is more efficient," says Sen. Rand Paul and his fellow conservatives. Really? Efficient at what, exactly  fraud, deception and disaster? Many of the public policy disagreements between conservatives and progressives are at essence a debate over whether government or the private sector is best equipped to provide vital services. Conservatives argue that government can be bloated and inefficient, which is certainly true sometimes, but attributing those characteristics to all government is like accusing every small businessperson of being Bernie Madoff. At its heart, whatever the occasional shortcomings, government exists solely for the purpose of advancing the public good. That's the mission. That's the entire design of the enterprise. Corruption, waste and falling short on delivery are inherently anathema to the core principles and existence of government. On the other hand, the point of the private sector is to make money. That's a good thing. Private enterprise is a vital engine of economic growth and opportunity in America and worldwide. That said -- if your primary goal is to make money, then hiding inconvenient facts, deceiving customers, cutting corners or sweeping risks under the rug are endemic to your enterprise. In an era of capitalism where businesses are increasingly massive and removed from the direct consequences of their business practices on employees, customers and communities, these profit-at-all-cost impulses are increasingly unbound. That's how you end up with companies knowing that its products are killing or hurting people and yet still refusing to do something about it lest it hurt their bottom line. Today we're talking about the Chevy Cobalt, but before that it was securitized sub-prime mortgages and before that it was tobacco companies selling cigarettes to kids. The list goes on and on and on. And this week, we have the Supreme Court hearing arguments in the Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood cases that private businesses should be able to claim religion in order to evade tenets of the law. The litigants want to evade compliance with the Obamacare mandate that they provide health insurance that covers contraception. But, as Justice Elena Kagan asked during oral arguments, what's to stop a company from using religion to object to vaccinations? Or blood transfusions? Or minimum wage laws or family medical leave or child labor laws? We've already ushered in unprecedented corporate rights through Citizens United and various doctrines of corporate personhood. Do we really need to go a step further and let corporations use religion as a loophole to rationalize their whims? More importantly, in spite of example after example to the contrary, why do we trust corporations to tell us the truth and do the right thing when they are not only designed but incentivized to do the opposite? Why on earth would we trust oil companies to tell us that fracking poses no harm to our drinking water? Or that our old health insurance policies are good ones? Or that our education system would be better off in their hands? It seems that almost every day there's yet another corporation covering up how it endangered people's safety and well-being for the sake of profit. This is why we need to strengthen checks and balances of government regulation and be wary of privatizing vital public services. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Sally Kohn. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/02/opinion/kohn-court-campaign-limits/index.html	opinion	Opinion: With ruling, money talks even louder in politics - CNN.com	2014/04/02	Wednesday Apr 2 06:32:01 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Sally Kohn is a CNN political commentator, progressive activist and columnist. Follow her on Twitter @sallykohn. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- On Wednesday, April 2, the United States Supreme Court ruled that any cap on the overall amount a person can spend to influence an election is unconstitutional. Following on the heels of the court's previous decision in Citizens United, the McCutcheon ruling will allow unlimited spending to influence our nation's political process. In the words of Justice Stephen Breyer, who wrote the dissent in the McCutcheon case, the ruling "eviscerates our nation's campaign finance laws, leaving a remnant incapable of dealing with the grave problems of democratic legitimacy that those laws were intended to resolve."  You shouldn't need money or connections to get a fair shake in our justice system. That's the very essence of our American creed. And yet we know that even with previous restrictions, money had a corrupting influence on our democracy. A Federal Election Survey found that 82% of Americans were worried about special interests buying elections. Three in five Americans thought Congress was already more likely to vote in ways that please their financial supporters, while only one in five Americans thought Congress votes in the best interest of constituents. Several studies find money gives you access to members of Congress and their staff: Contributors have disproportionately better access. And these studies were conducted before the McCutcheon decision, when the total donations to candidates, parties or PACs within an election cycle were still limited at a whopping $123,000.  This decision benefits those who have that kind of money, not the everyday campaign contributor. The court upheld the law that puts a $5,200 cap on conventional individual contributions to a single candidate. But without the $123,000 overall limit, imagine how much worse it will be when a single wealthy donor can contribute $3.5 million to a political party and its candidates. What we have politely called "influence" up until now will become nothing short of bribery.  It's hard enough to get the people's will through Congress as is. As is, 90% of Americans want stronger gun safety laws and yet gun-industry political contributions hobble legislative momentum. And 72% of voters want to raise the minimum wage -- including a majority of Republicans -- but campaign spending and lobbying by the low-wage fast food and retail industry is stymieing progress in Congress there as well. More than half of Americans want the federal government to limit power plant emissions and take other steps to curb climate change, moves opposed by the wealthy  and politically generous  oil and gas industry. On issue after issue after issue, the will of the American people is already up against the often-insurmountable obstacles created by well-heeled corporations armed with campaign contributions. And now it's just going to get worse. An analysis by the organization Demos found that the McCutcheon ruling could release more than $1 billion in additional election spending from wealthy donors through 2020.  The community activist group CREDO Action has launched a campaign to send NASCAR-like judge robes covered in corporate sponsorship logos to the five Supreme Court justices who voted for Citizens United and now the McCutcheon decision. Instead of protecting the marginalized and disenfranchised in America, the five conservative justices have manipulated our Constitution to create new rights and give even more power to our nation's wealthiest individuals and corporations.  In 1816, Thomas Jefferson wrote, "I hope that we shall crush in its birth the aristocracy of our monied corporations, which dare already to challenge our government to a trial of strength, and bid defiance to the laws of our country." But rather, thanks in part to the Supreme Court ruling in McCutcheon, it is now we the people who have been definitively crushed. As has our democracy.  Follow @CNNOpinion on Twitter Join us at Facebook/CNNOpinion  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/31/opinion/kohn-obamcare-signup/index.html	opinion	Opinion: 317 million reasons to love Obamacare - CNN.com	2014/03/31	Monday Mar 31 05:28:52 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Sally Kohn is a progressive activist, columnist and television commentator. Follow her on Twitter @sallykohn. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- More than 6 million Americans signed up for Obamacare before the March 31 deadline to get private health insurance through the Affordable Care Act exchanges. This is great news for the Obama administration. But there are millions more reasons to celebrate Obamacare. Actually, at the writing of this essay, there are more than 317 million reasons  because that's the population of the United States of America and every single one of us can benefit from health care reform. How? Here's a rundown by the numbers: 3.1 million  That's how many young adults can get coverage because of the provision in Obamacare that allows them to stay on their parents' insurance plans until age 26. 105 million That's how many Americans no longer have lifetime expense caps, whether it's because they have chronic illnesses or because their insurance company set restrictive policies. 6.1 million That's how many Americans with Medicare Part D no longer have to go through the "doughnut hole" coverage gap. This means seniors can save more than $5.7 billion on prescription drugs. 3.2 million That's the number of small businesses estimated to be eligible for tax credits for providing health insurance to their 19.3 million employees nationwide, credits worth $15.4 billion in 2011 alone. 4.4 million That's how many low-income adults will now have access to health insurance thanks to states implementing the expansion of Medicaid under Obamacare; an additional 5.8 million poor adults would be included in this count if 25 mostly Republican-led states weren't refusing Medicaid expansion. 50 to 129 million That's how many people will benefit from the Obamacare provision that eliminates all bars for coverage based on pre-existing conditions. Studies say that anywhere from 19% to 50% of non-elderly Americans have health conditions that could qualify as pre-existing conditions. 49.4 million That's how many current Medicare enrollees can feel secure knowing that, under Obamacare, existing Medicare benefits can neither be reduced nor taken away. 317 million -- That's how many Americans  i.e., all of us  potentially benefit from the requirement that insurance companies provide flu shots, HIV screenings, prostate exams, mammograms and FDA-approved contraception for free, without a co-pay. -- Plus, we all benefit from new requirements that insurance companies must spend at least 80% of our premium dollars on our health care as opposed to marketing or administration. -- We all benefit from the new requirement that insurance companies publicly justify their actions if they want to raise premiums by 10% or more. -- We all benefit from knowing that our insurance can now never be capped or canceled at the whim of insurance companies. As high quality care is maintained while costs may go down because of improved coverage and access, we all benefit from a more affordable and effective health care system. What about, you ask, the estimated 4.7 million Americans who lost their current insurance plans during the rollout of Obamacare? Well, according to a congressional report, 2.35 million or so can take advantage of the Obama administration's decision to grandfather those plans through 2014. Another 1.4 million qualify for Medicaid expansion or subsidies in the Obamacare exchanges. On top of that, the Obama administration has agreed that a "hardship exemption" built into health care reform for any American facing major challenges in complying with the law would be interpreted to include those whose policies had been canceled. In other words, they won't be penalized. When Republicans rolled out stories of alleged Obamacare victims, the details were usually debunked in some way. The truth is that many of the canceled plans were no longer legal under Obamacare because they neither covered the basic things insurance should cover or, worse, were dangerously designed to explode the minute the insured got sick: what Consumer Reports has called "junk insurance." Arguing that people should be able to keep these plans is like arguing that people should still be allowed to drive defective Chevy Cobalts or cars without seat belts. Like it or not, the government's job is to help keep us safe and insurance companies that were peddling shoddy products were doing the opposite. Polls show most Americans want to keep Obamacare and work to fix it rather than replace or get rid of health care reform altogether. And there's much to suggest support for Obamacare would be even higher were it not for constant Republican attacks and misinformation about the law. After all, when Americans find out what specific provisions are included in Obamacare, they overwhelmingly support them. Eighty percent support the extension of dependent coverage, 79% support closing the Medicare "doughnut hole," 77% support eliminating out-of-pocket costs for preventive services, 74% support the expansion of Medicaid. These Obamacare components are even supported by a majority of Republicans. And it's still early. As more Americans access private health insurance choices through the exchange marketplace, receive care minus the discrimination and dirty tricks that insurance companies could get away with in the past, we'll see more people getting the medicine they need, screened for cancer sooner in more treatable stages and pay less for good care. Every day, as we all see the benefits of health care reform in our lives, support for Obamacare will grow stronger. Before long, not even the most partisan Republicans will be able to attack it. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/sport/football/football-glazer-manchester-united/index.html	iSport	Manchester United and Buccaneers owner Malcolm Glazer dies aged 85 - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 04:43:26 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Malcolm Glazer, owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and English soccer club Manchester United, has died aged 85. The NFL franchise released a statement on their official website announcing Glazer had passed away on Wednesday morning. One of seven children, Glazer assumed control of the Buccaneers in 1995 and they went on to claim their first Super Bowl crown in 2002. He bought English Premier League team Manchester United in 2005 in a controversial takeover that was heavily criticized by a large section of their fans for loading debt onto the club. Read: The battle for Man Utd Despite this discontent, the club continued to enjoy huge success on the field, winning five Premier League titles and one European Champions League crown under his stewardship. Rest in peace to the driving force that helped transform the organization that changed my life forever. Forever grateful!! RIP Mr. Glazer. "The Tampa Bay Buccaneers are saddened to announce the passing of Owner/President Malcolm Glazer earlier this morning at the age of 85," read the statement. "Mr. Glazer's long established estate succession plan has assured the Buccaneers will remain with the Glazer family for generations to come. "Linda Glazer, along with their five sons and daughter, will continue to own and operate the team as they have throughout the family's ownership." "A private family funeral service will be held for Mr.Glazer. The opportunity for others to remember and celebrate Mr. Glazer's life will be announced at a future date." More to follow...  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/showbiz/wiz-khalifa-jail/index.html	entertainment	Wiz Khalifa tweets jail selfie - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 12:50:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Allow us to take a moment to recognize Wiz Khalifa as the new king of #selfies. According to TMZ, the rapper -- who has a well-documented penchant for toking -- was arrested early Sunday morning at a Texas airport after a "green leafy substance" was found during a security check. But it looked like Wiz, who was born Cameron Jibril Thomaz, wasn't too stressed about the situation as he tweeted a pic of himself in jail with the caption "Jail selfie." Jail selfie. pic.twitter.com/l01qB8oLrm Talk about making lemonade out of lemons. He also tweeted a picture of the barred jail door saying "Free Trap Wiz." That cry was quickly picked up by fans on social media who turned it into a hashtag, naturally. Free Trap Wiz. pic.twitter.com/E39UYWTG8d MTV reported that he was released after a few hours and charged with being in possession of 0.5 grams of marijuana. He has been cited for simple possession of marijuana in the past, including in 2012 before one of his concerts in North Carolina.  The rapper's new project is titled "28 Grams" and is expected to be released soon.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/showbiz/tv/president-obama-kelly-michael-ew/index.html	entertainment	President Obama to make appearance on 'Live with Kelly and Michael' - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 01:31:04 EDT 2014	(EW.com ) -- Kelly Ripa and Michael Strahan are headed to Washington. On Tuesday's "Live! with Kelly and Michael," the co-hosts announced their first-ever interview with President Barack Obama. The duo is headed to D.C. to talk to Obama in the Blue Room of the White House, where they'll discuss the recent "White House Healthy Kids and Safe Sports Concussion Summit," among other topics. The interview will air Friday, May 30, 2014. See the original story at EW.com   CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/showbiz/cannes-2014-iconic-characters/index.html	entertainment	10 biggest Cannes icons - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 11:56:54 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Cannes is iconic in so many ways, its fashion, its films, its stars, but what about the characters it creates? While defining what exactly "iconic" means can be difficult, there is no denying that these ten characters have made their mark on Cannes' history. Dan Jolin, Features Editor at Empire Magazine shares his top ten iconic characters from Palme d'Or winning films. 1. Barton Fink, 'Barton Fink,' Joel and Ethan Coen (1991) Set in 1941, "Barton Fink" stars John Turturro in the title role as a young New York City playwright who is hired to write scripts for a film studio in Hollywood. "Fink is perfectly Coen-esque. First of all there's the name, you know exactly who that character is just by hearing it. Then there's the look of him. The Cohen's love their crazy hairstyles -- he looks permanently startled. The suit doesn't seem to fit him quite right, in the same way that he gets into an environment he quite doesn't fit, being the earnest playwright who has gone to Hollywood and is made to work on these terrible wrestler B-movies -- he's a man out of place." 2. Sailor, 'Wild at Heart,' David Lynch (1990) This 1990 American crime thriller revolves around Sailor Ripley, played by Nicolas Cage, and his girlfriend Lula Pace Fortune, played by Laura Dern, a young couple from North Carolina who go on the run from her domineering mother. Due to her mother's machinations, the mob becomes involved. "This is iconography courtesy of the actor's wardrobe ideas as much as anything else -- it was Nicolas Cage's own jacket -- he wore it as a Brando tribute. As Barton Fink is characterized by his hairstyle, so Sailor is by his snakeskin jacket, a symbol of his individuality. What I love about him -- and Laura Dern as well -- is the double act. Obviously it's a nightmarish, surrealistic road trip but there's always this purity and love to their relationship. With Cage and Lynch together you get magic coming through and that encapsulation of darkness and light, the purity and terrible violence, all in him doing Elvis in a snakeskin jacket." 3. Colonel Kurtz, 'Apocalypse Now,' Francis Ford Coppola (1979) This film, set during the Vietnam War, follows the central character, U.S. Army officer Captain Benjamin L. Willard (Martin Sheen), on a mission to kill the presumed insane U.S. Army colonel Walter E. Kurtz (Marlon Brando). "It's almost accidental that Brando's Kurtz became so iconic. Brando took a million dollar advance for the role, then tried to get out of it, but keep the million. He turned up drunk and overweight and hadn't even read the script. Coppola was faced with this immense problem, how can I make this character work, with guy who looks wrong and doesn't even want to do the film? The solution was to shoot him mostly in shadow, but that really worked, the movie shifted into a surreal work and Brando became the monster at the end of the river." Read more: Cannes scandals: 5 most controversial film festival moments 4. Jules Winnfield, 'Pulp Fiction,' Quentin Tarantino (1994) Pulp Fiction is known for its eclectic dialogue, ironic mix of humor and violence, host of cinematic allusions and of course, Jules Winnfield. "I keep coming back to the wardrobe, but it's all about Winnfield's hair. There's something about that Jheri curl. Often these characters are given different hairstyles to make them stand out and it makes them iconic. You are never quite sure how well Jules and Vincent know each other, in some scenes they seem like they don't know each other at all." 5. Travis Bickle, 'Taxi Driver,' Martin Scorsese (1976)  Set in New York City soon after the end of the Vietnam War, "Taxi Driver" stars Robert De Niro as Travis Bickle; an honorably discharged U.S. Marine, who is lonely and depressed. He becomes a taxi driver to cope with chronic insomnia, driving passengers around New York City every night. "It's hard to say anything original when talking about Travis Bickle as an iconic character, you've got three geniuses who are the architects of that character, writer Paul Schrader who put a lot of personal investment into the character, Scorsese as the visual constructor of the character and then De Niro who is coming into the very peak of his power as an actor at that time. I find it funny that De Niro wouldn't change his hair for this film, the Mohawk is a hair piece, not that you notice." 6. Travis, 'Paris Texas' Wim Wenders (1984) The focus of this film is an amnesiac who, after mysteriously wandering out of the desert, attempts to revive his relationship with his brother and young son and track down his former wife who abandoned their family. "He has the same name as Travis Bickle, but he's the flipside of him. He's the silent loner and again, as with many of these iconic characters, it's the look of him. There's something about him in that red cap wandering out of the wilderness, that makes him look like a modern version of a western hero." Read more: 'We're children with arthritis!' Action heroes invade Cannes on tanks 7. Ada McGrath, 'The Piano,' Jane Campion (1993)  "The Piano" revolves around a mute piano player's passion for music and her efforts to save enough money to buy her very own instrument and teach her daughter how to play. "Here you've got the perfect synthesis of music and person because she communicates through the piano, part of what makes her character an icon is Michael Nyman's score which is one of the greatest ever. Every piece on "The Piano" album stands alone, but then you put it together with Holly Hunter on screen and it feels perfectly part of the character and Hunter actually played the piano herself. Campion was the first woman to ever win the Palme d'Or and the film shows this small strong woman in an alien landscape. It was the first time I saw New Zealand on screen, and Campion captured it really well." 8. Dorothy Gale, 'The Wizard of Oz' Victor Fleming (1939)  Judy Garland stars in this film which sees Dorothy Gale, a young farm girl, lifted away from her home town in a tornado. Despite it's impact on world cinema it never actually won the Palme d'Or. "It didn't win, but it should have. It's an undeniable icon. It goes without saying she's a gay icon and that has further entrenched her in the firmament. There is a bit of Dorothy in all of us, the wide eyed wonder of entering a whole new world. It raises the question; is she mad? Is it all in her head? Judy Garland is amazing in it, although clearly much older than the part, she anchors the film." Read more: Why you should care about Cannes 9. Harry Lime, 'The Third Man,' Carol Reed (1949)  American pulp Western writer Holly Martins arrives in Allied-occupied Vienna seeking his childhood friend; Harry Lime (played by Orson Welles), who has offered him a job, only to be told that Lime was killed by a car while crossing the street just days before. "Similar to the making of Colonel Kurtz, Harry Lime's presence is felt throughout the film but he's only revealed late on in the film. Another similarity is that Carol Reed got in a very esteemed and established actor, Orson Welles, who also didn't want to do it, and had to be cajoled just like Marlon Brando in "Apocalypse Now". All that feeds into why the character is iconic, the tensions and attention that went into making it work gave it its durability, you can't imagine anyone else playing that part." 10. Adle, 'Blue is the Warmest Colour' Abdellatif Kechiche (2013) This French romantic coming of age drama starts with Adle, a high-school student who becomes troubled about her sexual identity. The film then documents her relationship with blue haired Emma. "Both the director and the lead actresses; La Seydoux and Adle Exarchopoulos won Palme d'Or's for this film, with Adle being the youngest artist ever to receive it at just 19. She is a different kind of icon in the sense that you wouldn't necessarily recognize a silhouette of her, but she spends the film with the camera in her face, while having sex, eating, sleeping. It's like living the film yourself."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/emma-watson-graduates-brown-degree/index.html	entertainment	Emma Watson and other celebs with fancy degrees - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 10:04:09 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/18/opinion/cevallos-dunn-verdict-critics/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Dunn verdict a win for prosecution, despite critics - CNN.com	2014/02/18	Tuesday Feb 18 07:34:44 EST 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos, a CNN legal analyst, is a criminal defense attorney practicing in Philadelphia, New York and the U.S. Virgin Islands. (CNN) -- If trials were predictable, they wouldn't happen. You can root for a jury to see a case your way and disagree with its ultimate verdict, but you cannot criticize the jury system for being unpredictable. In that sense, a Florida jury's recent verdicts -- and nonverdicts -- against Michael Dunn demonstrate a fundamental truth about trials. They are not only unpredictable; they are designed that way. The case against Dunn stemmed from an incident on November 23, 2012. Dunn, a 47-year-old white man, arrived at a gas station in Jacksonville, Florida, and parked next to an SUV that contained Davis and other black teenagers. When Dunn complained about loud music coming from the SUV, words were exchanged and Dunn ultimately fired a gun that killed Davis. Dunn said he saw a gun barrel pointing out of the SUV, but the prosecution said there was no gun. Dunn was found guilty of three counts of attempted second-degree murder as to the other occupants of the car, but the jury was not able to reach a verdict on the first-degree murder charge in the death of Jordan Davis. In the eyes of critics, this case was a "sure thing" for the prosecution, and anything less than guilty verdicts across the board is now considered by them to be a miscarriage of justice. Guilty verdicts were expected. That sentiment belies a fundamental misunderstanding about the criminal justice system: With juries, there is no such thing as a "sure thing." No one can accurately predict how each juror might perceive the evidence, argue a case in deliberations or be persuaded by his or her fellow jurors. Jurors can and do bring their own life experiences to the jury room, and no two jurors are the same. Yet anyone who has waited for a jury's verdict has engaged in the same helpless jury astrology because there is simply no hard science to predict their behavior. The best example is the rabid divination of the meaning of juror questions: those inscrutable, handwritten missives intermittently sent out to the judge and read to the lawyers in chambers. Tonyaa Weathersbee: An empty verdict, a hollow victory This system is about as sophisticated as note-passing in grade-school algebra, but just a few lines from an innocuous jury inquiry will leave seasoned attorneys pondering the hidden meaning and the potential direction of the deliberations. The bottom line is this: Reading these tea leaves is an exercise in futility. There's no way to predict a verdict with certainty. To many observers, including me, this was a strong prosecution case, but not a sure thing. In fact, it's generally only the close-call cases that go to a jury. The most obvious cases of guilt or nonguilt should result in plea agreements or voluntary withdrawals by the prosecution. Simply look at the statistics. The vast majority of all cases, criminal and civil, are resolved before trial. Verdicts are simply too risky for either side, especially to put up a case that they believe is a loser. A jury trial means each side believes their theory of the case is strong enough to roll the dice in this riskiest game of all. Whether you agree with the jury's verdict or not, these verdicts give us some insight into the jury's thought process. The jury convicted on attempted second-degree murder for shots fired at the other passengers in the SUV with Davis. It makes sense. By Dunn's own concessions, he intentionally shot at a vehicle speeding away from him. Even if Dunn's testimony were completely believed, at best only Davis was the aggressor, so Dunn had a minimal self-defense claim against the other occupants. But, the verdict on attempted second-degree murder may have put a figurative "cap" on Dunn's level of intent. In other words, the jury may have agreed that Dunn's level of intent as to all victims was consistent -- perhaps not the specific intent to kill characteristic of a first-degree murder, but something slightly less. In the case of second-degree murder, this could be an intentional act so indifferent to human life it evinced a depraved mind. The "depraved heart" variety of murder is often analogized, coincidentally enough, to law students as closing your eyes and shooting into a crowd with a gun. It may be true that you did not actually intend to hit anyone, but the act was so likely to kill that your level of intent is just below that of specific, premeditated murder. That law school example used to explain the concept to students is eerily similar to the facts here. While it's possible that the jury was hung up trying to apply the law of self-defense, it may also be that the jury simply had trouble with the definitions of homicide. It's understandable. They are complicated for lawyers and lay persons alike. Florida's standard jury instructions are available online. Take a look at each of the suggested instructions for the different degrees of murder and manslaughter. They, like all jury instructions, are complicated. They do not get much less complicated just because the judge reads them slowly and out loud to the jury. They involve abstract concepts and seemingly overlapping definitions of nuanced "states of mind." It's very likely that the jury was hung up on whether self-defense applied, but they also may have deadlocked over the different definitions of homicide. Despite public frustrations, this was a win for the prosecution. It secured a successful verdict on four of five counts that will, because of Florida's minimum mandatory sentencing scheme and the defendant's use of a firearm, send Dunn to prison for at least 60 to 75 years. That's day-for-day: no gain time, no early release except for a win on appeal. Plus, the prosecution can retry Dunn for the killing of Davis. When a judge discharges a jury on the grounds that the jury cannot reach a verdict, the double jeopardy clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution does not bar a new trial of the defendant. The double jeopardy clause provides: "[N]or shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb in criminal ... cases." If the state reprosecutes the Davis killing, Dunn will certainly feel as if he's being tried twice for the same crime. Constitutionally, however, a retrial following a deadlocked jury is permissible. Defense counsel deserves recognition as well. They hung a jury on what many observers expected to be a clear-cut murder conviction. Even without the wave of public acrimony against the defendant, this was always an uphill self-defense case. It was clear from the trial that the defense prepared this case and the client, and gave Dunn the best chance at a not-guilty verdict. Overall, a good job with bad facts for the defense. The big question now is whether we will see the state of Florida retry Dunn for the murder of Davis. On one hand, they have achieved a virtual life sentence on the other convictions, which achieves one of the philosophical goals of punishment: incapacitation and isolation of Dunn from the community. It does not achieve another goal of punishment for the Davis family: retribution. The state has indicated for now that it will retry Dunn, but if it does, one thing will remain certain: There are no sure things in retrials, either.  Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Danny Cevallos. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/13/opinion/cevallos-jovan-belcher-suicide-liability/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Who gets the blame for NFL player Jovan Belcher's suicide? - CNN.com	2014/01/13	Monday Jan 13 07:19:28 EST 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos, a CNN legal analyst, is a criminal defense attorney practicing in Philadelphia, New York and the U.S. Virgin Islands. He is also an adjunct professor of health care law and ethics.  (CNN) -- As the family of a late Kansas City Chiefs linebacker pursues a lawsuit against his former employer, claiming that effects of multiple concussions caused Jovan Belcher to kill his girlfriend and himself, we are left to consider a larger legal question: How liable can a negligent employer be for a suicide? Emile Durkheim, the French social psychologist of the early 20th century, observed: "Each victim of suicide gives his act a personal stamp which expresses his temperament, the special conditions in which he is involved, and which, consequently, cannot be explained by the social and general causes of the phenomenon." Culturally, we have long-viewed suicide as the most personal of decisions. The law has mostly followed suit. Legally, suicide is like murder in that it's a specific-intent killing. There are many degrees of intent in criminal law, and specific intent is the highest level. It means the killer acted intending the specific outcome -- the death of the victim. The only practical difference is the inherent complication in prosecuting the completed suicide. Your defendant is also your victim, and in any event, he is no longer subject to the state's jurisdiction. So then how can we suggest that Belcher's employer negligently caused him to do the most independent, intentional act of all? The legal question is better framed like this: Negligent parties are generally liable for all the harm that is foreseeably caused by their negligence. When a person is negligent, it means they undertook some activity, and their conduct fell below a standard of care in performing that activity. Sometimes, however, a defendant can act negligently, but the subsequent harm to another person is caused by a completely independent intervening cause. This will break the original chain of causation, absolving the defendant of liability. Suppose, for example, the Chiefs were found to be negligent as to Belcher. (The team hasn't commented on the lawsuit.) Belcher's body exhumed for brain study Suppose the plaintiff proves all their allegations and then some: Imagine an e-mail surfacing where the team president knowingly and mockingly writes after reviewing medical evidence of concussions: "Time for some concussions in Kansas City!" To which another executive, aware of the potential harm to players, writes: "Is it wrong that I'm smiling?" Of course, no such evidence is known to exist. But suppose Belcher's family can also show that he suffered concussions and emotional problems as a direct result of the (fictional) team officials' negligence. But then imagine that Belcher's death was actually caused by an errant bolt of lightning in the parking lot. That bolt of lightning -- an "act of God" -- would be considered something unexpected that was wholly unrelated to his employer's negligence. None of us would expect the Chiefs to be liable for Belcher's death by electrocution in this hypothetical. So what about the alleged murder committed by Belcher? Could the Chiefs be liable? Traditionally, an unforeseeable, willful criminal act that intervenes between the negligent act and an intentional killing breaks the causal connection. Similarly, courts traditionally held that suicide was an "independent intervening cause," so that there was no liability for negligence that resulted in a suicide. But the times are changing. The recent trend is to permit these cases if the plaintiff can "prove" that the negligence caused the suicide. This development appears completely inconsistent with centuries of jurisprudence. But it may be very consistent with the current direction of our culture: holding others responsible for our own behavior. In Missouri, a wrongful death plaintiff has the burden to show that the decedent's death was "a direct result" of a defendant's negligence. More specifically, if the plaintiff can show that the death was the "natural and probable consequence" of the injury that the defendant caused by his negligence, then the plaintiff can win. Now, this is no easy case to make and likely would require expert medical evidence to draw a scientific relationship between one man's carelessness and another's suicide. Fortunately for the Belcher family and plaintiffs at large, Missouri courts acknowledge that the science, like the law, is increasingly on their team. According to Missouri courts, modern psychiatry supports the idea that suicide sometimes is a foreseeable result of traumatic injuries. And if a qualified expert takes the stand and tells a jury that, to a reasonable degree of medical certainty, a concussion directly caused a suicide, well that jury has something on which to hang a verdict. We shouldn't be shocked. After all, as a society we've been tinkering with holding people responsible for another's suicide for some time now. In New Jersey in 2012, Rutgers student Dharun Ravi was convicted of invasion of privacy and more than a dozen other charges by using a webcam to peek (into his own room, that he would have had an absolute right to walk into at any time) at his roommate Tyler Clementi. When Clementi learned of the immature and cruel prank, he was upset. In gauging Ravi's responsibility, we should have considered the "natural and probable consequence" of Ravi's juvenile acts on Clementi. We should have asked: what would we have expected Clementi to do in this instance? Perhaps we'd expect him to sucker-punch Ravi. Maybe we'd expect Clementi to fling Ravi's laptop out of their dorm window. But can any of us say the "natural and probable" consequence of Ravi's stunt was Clementi's suicide? The clever reader will point out that Ravi was not prosecuted for the death of Clementi, and that is true. But let's face it: The main reason Ravi was in criminal court was because Clementi committed suicide. Ravi was prosecuted because of the independent act of a very upset young man. (Clementi's family decided not to file a lawsuit and instead to focus on working with The Tyler Clementi Foundation to support gay and lesbian youths.) We're entering a new cultural era. Now, when a tragedy occurs, heads must roll, no matter what. Now that appears to include suicide, that most personal, independent decision to end one's own life. Our mind may tell us that the deceased is the only party liable for his suicide. Our grief, however, speaks louder, and it calls out for retribution. Modern jurisprudence appears to join in the public sentiment; we are moving toward the idea that for every tragedy, every social wrong, every inequity, that someone must be held responsible. Perhaps it's socially cathartic, or perhaps we are devolving to our bloodier Coliseum days, where we are sated as long as a lion eats someone. Even though it goes against centuries of legal precedent, cases such as Ravi's and other civil cases are suggesting a cultural sea change. When someone commits suicide, it's someone else's fault. Follow @CNNOpinion on Twitter. Join us at Facebook/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Danny Cevallos. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/10/opinion/cevallos-nba-sterling-endgame/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Will NBA be able to oust Donald Sterling? - CNN.com	2014/05/10	Saturday May 10 10:21:07 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Watch clips of Anderson Cooper's interview with Donald Sterling on "New Day" Monday morning and see the full interview on "AC360" at 8 p.m. ET Monday. Danny Cevallos is a CNN legal analyst, criminal defense attorney and partner at Cevallos & Wong, practicing in Pennsylvania and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Follow him on Twitter @CevallosLaw. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- The NBA and the Los Angeles Clippers' organization may have upstaged Donald Sterling's latest soundtrack Friday afternoon with the announcement that Richard Parsons, former Citigroup and Time Warner chairman, is the new CEO of the team. The public relations contrast was stark: As the National Basketball Association and the Clippers were moving forward, Donald Sterling's statements were coming from surreptitiously (or not so surreptitiously) recorded phone conversations. But now, he has spoken out directly in an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper. Sterling says in that interview that he was "baited" into making his controversial statements. And he makes the argument that he shouldn't be thrown out of the NBA. "I'm a good member who made a mistake and I'm apologizing and I'm asking for forgiveness," he said. "Am I entitled to one mistake, am I after 35 years? I mean, I love my league, I love my partners. Am I entitled to one mistake? It's a terrible mistake, and I'll never do it again." Sterling is not the only party suffering from this controversy. The NBA stands at the beginning of what will certainly be a protracted legal and procedural battle, one that will cost untold millions. It also will embroil the NBA in an unwanted controversy for years to come. Having a chief executive of Parsons' stature in control of the team may help the league gain an advantage as a battle over the team's ownership starts to play out, but the NBA's road ahead still will not be easy. But the NBA asked for this. The fact that players and the public largely supported the league will be of little solace to the NBA when it is paying legal fees for years to come. The legal fees may be the cost of doing business, but if banning and fining Sterling would have been adequate, this was an avoidable cost. The NBA's response to the Sterling controversy is a cautionary tale against meting out hasty, summary punishment. Here's why: The NBA likely had the authority to unilaterally fine Sterling as it did. It also appears to have had the authority to ban him from his team for life. If Commissioner Adam Silver had stopped there, Sterling might have been effectively vanquished, because the decisions of the commissioner are shielded from review by a court. For the privilege of joining the National Basketball Association, owners contractually give up certain legal rights and remedies. Fining and banning Sterling was probably well within the jurisdiction of the NBA. But in seeking to "max out" Sterling's sentence by forcing him to sell the team, the NBA is forging new legal territory, and doing so at a price. Sure, there are catch-all provisions of the NBA's rules that ostensibly allow for ouster of an owner who brings harm to the league, but the ouster rules on the whole appear designed for dealing with teams and owners suffering economic or management problems, like failing to make payroll -- not for owners who were private bigots. There will be an answer to the ultimate question of whether the NBA can legally oust Sterling. We just don't know what it is yet. The league and Sterling can purchase an answer to that question, at the cost of years of litigation and untold fortunes in legal fees. Moreover, if the NBA's objective was to distance itself from Sterling, they have done the opposite. After years of prolonged public litigation, they will cling to each other as two spent swimmers, choking their own business interests in the process. Early on, Silver made clear that the punitive measures were directed at Sterling, not at other members of his family. With this blessing, estranged wife Shelly Sterling has injected herself as a blame-free alternative owner. But does she have an ownership interest in the team? Determining true ownership of this team will be a Gordian Knot of litigation: First, there is the issue of whether the NBA can oust an owner where actual "ownership" is disputed. If the team is held in trust, as reported by the Los Angeles Times, and not by a single owner in Sterling, that changes the contours of ownership. A trust is a legal entity in which property (like a team) is held for the benefit of other persons. It's a protective device, designed for situations just like this: where a beneficiary of a trust is attacked, the property cannot be reached because the beneficiary does not actually "own" the property -- even though he may receive payments or otherwise profit from the property. The complexity doesn't end there, though. Even without a trust, in California, spouses acquire interests in family businesses when distributing property in a divorce. But that is only a general rule, and who knows what default rules Donald Sterling has attempted to deal with by contract? One thing is for sure, whether it's the NBA, Shelly, or Donald Sterling, each party will mount a different legal argument concerning ownership based upon their own best interests. Determining the "owner" of the Clippers will be a hodgepodge of legal issues worthy of the bar exam: divorce law, corporate dissolution, trusts and estates law. For now, Shelly Sterling is a cause for concern for the NBA, the other owners, and her own husband. She has leverage, possibly even 50% ownership of the team. The NBA owners must be longing for the "good old days" when their biggest problems were contract disputes and torn ACLs. We can only guess at the individual owners' respective positions at the moment Silver handed down verdict and sentence against Sterling. Now, the commissioner has placed the onus on the owners: They have the burden of deciding whether to oust one of their own. It is a Hobson's Choice, which is no choice at all: Even if the owners are privately sympathetic to Sterling, an owner who dares to defend the embattled Clippers owner commits social seppuku. On the other hand, NBA owners are independent thinkers and independently wealthy; if anyone can weather criticism, it's these captains of industry. Mark Cuban has already publicly observed that "people are allowed to be morons." Whether the owners ultimately cast their ballots for or against Sterling, all of these owners would rather be somewhere else. Public perception aside, the owners have other concerns: If this case goes to litigation, expect broad-reaching discovery demands and subpoenas for sensitive documents and information. This case is a minefield for them, with no real upside. At the moment, there appear to be a few winners in the Sterling controversy. Kia, CarMax, State Farm Insurance and Virgin America are just some of the companies that pulled advertising from the Clippers after the first tapes were revealed. Ironically, they garnered more buzz by not spending money advertising than they would have by actually spending money on advertising. It's the ultimate win-win, and it's not over yet. As long as someone else spends the time and money to excise Donald Sterling from the Clippers, the sponsors will have a second photo op. They will return triumphantly to advertising with the team, and take partial credit for the brave stance against one offensive octogenarian -- a stance that didn't actually require them to do, or spend, anything. Heading into the weekend, the advantage is with Shelly Sterling -- who may have a valid claim to ownership -- the NBA, and Parsons, the highly credentialed, newly anointed CEO. Donald Sterling's next moves will be interesting, though his first moves should be away from the telephone -- at least for now. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/06/opinion/cevallos-aggressive-duck-lawsuit/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Restrain your duck -- or wind up in court - CNN.com	2014/05/06	Tuesday May 6 07:47:14 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos is a CNN legal analyst, criminal defense attorney and partner at Cevallos & Wong, practicing in Pennsylvania and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Follow him on Twitter @CevallosLaw. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- A Washington woman is suing her mother's neighbor in Oregon for more than $250,000 to compensate her for pain, suffering and other damages she alleges were inflicted during a traumatic ambush ... by a duck. Cynthia Ruddell, 62, was visiting her mother's property when, she alleges, a domesticated duck belonging to Lolita Rose attacked her without provocation. In her flight to escape the factious fowl, Ruddell says she fell to the ground, breaking a wrist and spraining an elbow and shoulder. The case and subsequent media reports have highlighted common misunderstandings about tort liability for animals. Domestic animals: Every duck gets one free nip In the Beaver State, the owner of a domestic animal is "strictly liable" for the harm caused by the animal as a result of its abnormally dangerous characteristics only if the person knows or has reason to know it is abnormally dangerous. It's come to be known, somewhat inaccurately, as the "one bite" rule. It's not that every dog really gets one free bite. Instead, if your bichon fris attacks the pizza delivery guy once, the law says you can no longer deny you don't "know" of Fluffy's dangerous propensities. "Strict liability" can be thought of as automatic liability, and it's even better for plaintiffs than a theory of negligence. Negligence requires the plaintiff prove some actual wrongdoing or substandard behavior for a defendant to be liable. Strict liability is less common, but it's much better for plaintiffs, because it holds people criminally or civilly liable for the act itself, even if they meant no harm, and acted with the utmost care. For all domestic animals, an animal owner may also be liable for injuries under a theory of negligence. Negligence is failing to behave with the level of care that someone of ordinary prudence would have exercised under the same circumstances. Strict liability is automatic -- no matter how much care you took to prevent injury. Wild animals: Wild owners, strict liability For wild animals, the rule is different. Sonny Crockett had a pet alligator on "Miami Vice"; Mike Tyson famously spent his money on tigers that slept in his bed. If you're one of these special people who absolutely need a puma or a boa constrictor, know that you will be automatically, strictly liable for any harm to others. Wild animals have not been generally domesticated and are likely, unless restrained, to cause personal injury. In this case, the plaintiff concedes the duck is a domestic one, but interestingly enough, waterfowl actually run the gamut from harmless to "killer." In the personal-injury world, cases are defined largely by an axis of two factors: liability (how bad or innocent defendant's behavior was) and damages (how badly the plaintiff was hurt). If the duck owner's behavior is deemed negligent, she will be on the hook for all injuries, even if the plaintiff has an "eggshell skull," or is unusually fragile. The Oregon duck attack case would likely be described in the world of plaintiffs' lawyers as "average liability, good damages." News reports often give undue attention to the dollar amount demanded in a court-filed civil complaint. A complaint is the document that initiates a lawsuit when filed with the court. Here's what news reports aren't telling you about these pleadings: Lawyers don't pay attention to the amount demanded in a complaint. It has little bearing on the ultimate value of a settlement or a jury award. In fact, in many jurisdictions, a complaint frequently won't demand any specific dollar amount. On the other hand, if you are in Brooklyn or Queens, complaints routinely demand millions of dollars -- amounts that might seem outlandish in Kalamazoo, Michigan. For the most part, the dollar amount alleged in the complaint serves only jurisdictional or administrative purposes. For example, for a federal court to have jurisdiction over most personal-injury cases, the plaintiff must demand more than $75,000. In other state courts, the amount demanded helps the court determine how to classify and route the case. Ask any veteran insurance defense attorney: He or she will tell you lawyers don't care about the demand for a precise amount of money. They care about the facts. And that's how this case will play out. If the duck owner was negligent, or had knowledge of the dangerous nature of this duck, and the duck's behavior foreseeably caused the injuries, the owner will be liable for all those injuries. A broken wrist and an injured rotator cuff have real value as damages, and could actually be "worth" the amount claimed. But the final amount will be determined using tangible medical records and bills -- not by a fanciful number in a pleading. The law of animal liability is about to become more relevant than ever, as we are increasingly a society that insists upon people bringing their pets with them everywhere: work, restaurants and airports. Soon public places will be full of service poodles, service parrots and service iguanas -- until we just won't care about confirming whether they are really even service animals. It will happen gradually, but within a few years we won't even notice that we are seated at a fine restaurant next to a German shepherd. Don't believe me? Did you imagine 10 years ago that dogs would be wandering around in airports, using the Cinnabon stand as a fire hydrant? It's coming. Adorable or not, they are still animals, and they still bite, or quack, or attack. I suppose we'll have to learn to bite back. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/28/opinion/cevallos-police-search-cell-phone/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Will cops be free to search your phone? - CNN.com	2014/04/28	Monday Apr 28 07:27:12 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos is a CNN legal analyst, criminal defense attorney and partner at Cevallos & Wong, practicing in Pennsylvania and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Follow him on Twitter: @CevallosLaw. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- On Tuesday, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments in two cases testing the authority of police to conduct a warrantless search of an arrested person's cell phone. For the most part, the justices' rulings in cases dealing with the Fourth Amendment go largely unnoticed by the public. Most citizens are not interested in these cases the way they are in issues like same-sex marriage or gun control. On the whole, Americans don't worry too much about search-and-seizure issues because they think these cases don't apply to them "Those cases only apply to criminals." "I'm not planning on getting arrested." "I have nothing to hide." The sentiment is understandable. Most of these cases involve application of the "exclusionary rule" to throw out evidence like guns or drugs, based on the way it was seized. By definition, suppressed evidence is always incriminating -- after all, if the police only found something innocuous, like a pack of smokes, there never would have been an arrest in the first place! This does not mean that only criminal defendants have an interest in these cases. The rest of us should pay attention for two reasons. First, most people don't realize how easy it is for the police to arrest a person and seize their property. Second, our private information is no longer on a piece of paper in a safe. It's in the form of data, and it's on our person, or in that thing they call the "cloud." If police can access your cell phone without a warrant, they can access your entire life. Don't believe me? What's in your cellphone right now? Is there anything you wouldn't want a stranger swiping through? How about the apps on your phone? Do you do any banking or other transactions on there? Cell phones not only contain data -- they are now becoming a portal beyond the device itself, into a third-party world, whether that's your health information, your finances, or anything else out there in the cloud. And if you're like most people, you're not immune to arrest. Police can potentially arrest you for minor infractions like littering, jaywalking, and traffic offenses. And just because they arrest you, should they be able to swipe through your pictures and text messages? Police can search containers on your person without a warrant if they contain evidence that might be destroyed, or a potential weapon. Unless you can throw your iPhone like a ninja shuriken, it's probably not much of a weapon. In one of the pending cases, police seized Brima Wurie's Verizon LG phone (remember those?) after a warrantless arrest for a street sale of drugs. The phone began ringing at the station during the booking process, and, without a warrant, police decided to start going through the photos and the call log, using a reverse phone directory to look up addresses associated with numbers, and comparing the residents' likenesses to pictures on the phone. Police eventually used this information to obtain a warrant to search a house, where they did find drugs and firearms. The question is, should this evidence have been suppressed? Where evidence is the result of an unconstitutional search, it is considered "fruit of the poisonous tree," and courts should throw all the evidence flowing from that bad search. This is not to say that police can never search for evidence of crimes in a cell phone. They just need to adhere to the Constitution to do it, which means that a neutral magistrate must approve a request for a warrant, and that warrant must be supported by probable cause. The Fourth Amendment was drafted specifically in response to the perceived injustice of the British "general warrant," which allowed the Redcoats to freely search a citizen's home and papers. Arguably, a search of an iPhone is an even more invasive search of a person's papers, even when it doesn't occur in a home. Whether it's that crinkly Constitution paper, or the modern-day tablet, the spirit of the "papers" the Fourth Amendment sought to protect is the same. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/15/opinion/cevallos-flight-370/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Flight 370 families need lawyers - CNN.com	2014/04/15	Tuesday Apr 15 07:38:21 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos is a CNN legal analyst, criminal defense attorney and partner at Cevallos & Wong, practicing in Pennsylvania and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Follow him on Twitter: @CevallosLaw. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- As the search for the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 continues, both the Malaysian government and the airline have come under sharp criticism. Some say that all involved parties, including the manufacturer Boeing, are circling their wagons and bracing for a long public relations siege while the families of the missing passengers continue to grieve. Meanwhile, others have stepped in to help the relatives of the passengers. One group of emissaries from the United States has traveled across the globe at their own expense to offer assistance to the grieving families. However, instead of being welcomed, their arrival was reported with thinly veiled revulsion. I'm talking about the lawyers. The lawyers were described in reports as "descending" on the scene and "hovering" around the families. Apparently, stereotypes about the legal profession exist around the world. But the bias toward lawyers is logically indefensible. Malaysia Airlines and Boeing are not charities These gigantic corporations are legally obligated to minimize their financial exposure. This means that every move they make is strategically calculated against their legal adversaries. And those adversaries are civilians. More specifically, they are bereaved mothers, fathers and other family members of those who were aboard Flight 370. Talk about David vs. Goliath. How well do you know the Montreal Convention? The Montreal Convention is an international treaty signed by 97 countries that addresses the liability of air carriers in international flights. It contains strict limitations on the time in which a claim may be brought. It holds a carrier strictly liable in the approximate amount of $175,000 per passenger in the case of an "accident." However, if a plaintiff is seeking an amount in excess of the prescribed (approximately) $175,000, the convention permits the carrier to prove the damage was not due to the negligence of the carrier or was solely due to the negligence of another party. So, the airlines may be able to legally minimize their loss to only $175,000 per person if they can blame someone or something else. It is widely agreed that American courts will be the best venue for the families, but the convention has strict rules about where the families can file suit. If these families cannot figure out how to navigate the convention's jurisdictional complexities, they will be stuck litigating against an airline in a courthouse in Kuala Lumpur, when they might have sought justice in a U.S. court. Did you know all that? If you didn't know it, then do you expect a family from Chongqing, China, should have to research this in the local law library? Of course not. They are entitled to legal help, and it's never too soon to get them help. 'Too Soon' doesn't apply to legal representation If you didn't know even these basics about the convention, how fair is it for a working-class Chinese family to navigate the complexities of the treaty in an American court? The logic is inescapable: These families should not be required to litigate these complicated issues in court alone. They should have attorneys to help them. And if we agree that they should have lawyers, then they should have them from the outset of the adversarial process. After all, do you think Boeing and Malaysia Airlines think it's "too soon" to consult with their attorneys? If these corporate juggernauts are entitled to counsel, it stands to reason that a grieving mother of a Chinese Flight 370 passenger with zero legal training is, too. Safeguards of the republic  Lawyers are the "safeguards of the republic;" they are the last bastion of defense for the populace against the government and large corporations. During his extended stay in America, French political historian Alexis de Tocqueville observed that American lawyers would be best positioned to guard against tyranny and protect natural rights in a mass democracy. The families of Flight 370 passengers will receive the services of highly skilled attorneys who will take on the costs of litigating this case against Malaysia Airlines, a risky venture that would consume a good deal of time, resources and effort. The families will not have to front one dollar, ringgit, or yuan. What other skilled profession provides services, advancing all the costs, and charges no fees unless you have a successful outcome? Try that with your doctor. See if he'll operate on your herniated disc with the proviso that you'll only pay if the surgery is a pain-free success. Even the controversial Affordable Care Act never dreamed of an expansion of patient rights to this degree. Of course, attorneys stand to earn fees from contingent fee cases, but they also acquire all the risk; they lose every penny they invest in a client if the case is unsuccessful. An attorney who takes on a high-risk contingent fee case invites financial ruin if he or she doesn't prevail. No one expects the families of the missing passengersalready undergoing a traumatic experienceto single-handedly deal with corporations in full damage-control mode. Even if it's true that the prospective plaintiffs' lawyers in this case stand to profit from this case, Malaysia Airlines and Boeing are trying to save many millions by managing their legal exposures. That the lawyers are described as "descending" on the scene shows that we've come a long way from Alexis de Tocqueville's positive view of legal counsel. Certainly, the practice of law has changed significantly since that time. The robed barristers of centuries past bear little resemblance to lawyers like Jamie Casino, who recently advertised during the Super Bowl. But whether they are bearing white wigs or flaming sledgehammers, all are officers of the court, and all should try to help the masses who could use legal counsel at times of tragedy. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/04/opinion/costello-not-just-hard-work/index.html	opinion	Opinion: If you work hard, will you get into the one percent? - CNN.com	2014/02/04	Tuesday Feb 4 08:34:10 EST 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. (CNN) -- Many wealthy, successful Americans regale us with stories of how they worked their rears off to get to where they are. Living proof, they say, that hard work can propel you to heights you cannot imagine. I don't doubt their stories; I worked hard too. But along with that hard work came something no one seems to acknowledge -- luck. Understandable, for luck says nothing about your smarts or talent or beauty. Luck is a happy accident. Seize it and make it work for you and nine times out of 10, you're golden. I'm not saying only luck brings success. Hard work is necessary too, but it is not sufficient. Did I work harder or think better than hundreds of thousands of others? I would love to say yes, but although I tried to outsmart my competitors, I know I would not be sitting at CNN without Lady Luck on my side. I know. I hear you. "You make your own luck!" Yes, you can, but it was a lot easier for me to "make my own luck" than it was -- is -- for many others Bear with me. I grew up decidedly middle-class. My father was a steelworker, my mother an office manager and occasional bookkeeper. Neither parent attended college, but they managed to carve out a comfortable life for me, my brothers and sister. There was no money to set aside for college, but I knew my parents expected me to be a college graduate. Lucky me? Yes. Because my father, a high school graduate, was able to find a well-paying job. Back in the day, manufacturing jobs were plentiful, and they paid well, as did many traditional middle-class jobs. Today, not so much. An article in The New York Times on September 18, 1987, reported the average wage for an automaker was $13.50 an hour. In today's dollars, that's $28.47. (Annual inflation over this period averaged 2.8%.) More than two decades later, thanks to the 2008 recession and the erosion of union power, entry-level unionized autoworkers were paid between $14 and $17 an hour, while veteran workers earned between $28 and $38 an hour. So, I was lucky to be born to parents who could afford to feed me, clothe me, house me and, as an added bonus, expect me to make something of myself. Also, my mother was not an alcoholic, and my father was not an ex-con. We lived in a variety of middle-class neighborhoods -- some middle, some lower -- but there were no drug dealers on the corner, no gunshots in the street. There were no metal detectors at the doors or armed security guards patrolling the halls of any of the schools I attended. I did work hard to get through college, though. I worked two jobs for minimum wage -- one in a cafeteria and another at SeaWorld -- to pay my way through school. In addition to those jobs, I interned at WAKR in Akron, Ohio, for free and attended night classes to finish my degree. Ah, you say -- finally -- proof that if you work hard enough you will escape that minimum-wage job and achieve your goals. Except luck played a part here too. According to the College Board, there was little to no growth in college prices in the 1970s. College costs actually just started to rise in 1980, the year I entered Kent State University. I just missed the massive sticker shock students face today. Since I went to school, college costs have risen at twice and sometimes three times the Consumer Price Index. Still, I was happy to apply and accept government grants and loans to help pay the bills. That internship in Akron paid off too. WAKR-TV hired me. I made minimum wage in my first professional job, but I was not a single mother and did not have to care for aging or sick relatives. I just had to worry about myself. Luckily, a news director in Cleveland named Ron Bilek offered to mentor me and eventually hired me in Columbus, Ohio. Four jobs later, I was off and running for CNN. So yes, I worked hard. I put in long hours. But millions of others have as well. Luck, by definition, means a chance happening of fortunate events. And I would argue that far too few middle-class Americans are now experiencing the same "happening of fortunate events" that I did. The majority of middle-class people are struggling not because they don't work as hard as the most successful Americans, but because it takes more than sweat to succeed and the odds are tougher in 2014. It's time for our leaders to help people turn their luck around. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Carol Costello. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/09/opinion/cevallos-kid-points-finger-gun/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Boy suspended for bringing own hand to school - CNN.com	2014/04/09	Wednesday Apr 9 03:26:28 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos is a CNN legal analyst, criminal defense attorney and partner at Cevallos & Wong, practicing in Pennsylvania and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- Recently a school principal in Ohio suspended a student for three days after the 10-year-old pointed his finger at another student in class and pretended to shoot. This kind of harsh sentencing is not new. In recent years, we've heard of kids being suspended for pop-tarts chewed into "gun shapes," or for firing an imaginary bow and arrow. In fact, school suspensions over things that could not possibly be guns have been going on for years. Last year, a Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania, kindergarten student was suspended from school for allegedly threatening others and herself with a weapon -- her pink "Hello Kitty" bubble gun. Even finger gun suspensions have come up before. In a suspiciously similar Florida case last year, an 8-year-old was also suspended for playing cops and robbers and pretending his finger was a gun. No word yet on whether these kids are part of the same ring of "robbers" -- or "cops," for that matter. The use of imaginary weapons is only escalating. Last year, a 7-year-old in Colorado was suspended from school for throwing an imaginary grenade. This ups the imaginary-weapon ante: Given that real explosives can arguably cause more harm and terror than firearms, should the punishment for an imaginary grenade be greater than that for an imaginary gun? When a kid runs around the room pretending to fly a fighter jet, he or she probably should be expelled or sent to juvie hall, no? After all, an imaginary fighter jet carries imaginary missiles and other fictional ordnance. Indeed, the modern imaginary F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter aircraft carries enough imaginary ordnance to lay waste to a small imaginary village. We are having fun here, but only to demonstrate what, logically, we are dealing with when students are caught in the net of "zero tolerance," where the mandatory punishments are anything but imaginary. In our public schools, "zero tolerance" policies impose unwavering, pre-determined consequences for certain behavior, with little or no discretion given to school officials enforcing the policies. You can't blame school districts entirely -- the federal government bears some responsibility. In 1994, the Gun-Free Schools Act, forced each state (upon threat of losing federal funding) to pass laws requiring local educational agencies to, among other things, impose a minimum year expulsion upon a student who brings a weapon to school. Sound familiar? It should. The policy is firmly rooted in the idea of mandatory minimum sentences for adult crimes. Such mandatory minimums remove a judge's discretion to impose any punishment lower than the statutory floor. Mitigating information about the offense and offender becomes irrelevant, because the judge is powerless to impose a below-minimum sentence. Last year, Attorney General Eric Holder urged reform of mandatory minimum sentencing, so that individuals accused of certain low-level federal drug crimes no longer face excessive mandatory minimum sentences. Even the nation's top prosecutor acknowledges that "mando mins" have "resulted in unduly harsh sentences and perceived or actual disparities that do not reflect our Principles of Federal Prosecution." In sum, for adult criminal defendants, the mandatory minimum approach to punishment may be too draconian. For schools and our children, "mando mins" are apparently just fine. Especially when they are repackaged as "zero tolerance" policies. There is no question that students who bring actual weapons to class with evil plans should face harsh penalties like expulsion. But how did we get to Pop-Tarts and fingers? At this point, schools cannot blame the Gun Free Schools Act, because these items are simply not weapons under the applicable definition, 18 U.S.C.  921(a)(3)(4) 18 U.S.C.  921(a)(3)(4). And while it's true Ohio law vaguely requires school boards to adopt "zero tolerance" policies, without a whole lot of guidance, it's clear that schools have irrationally overreacted. Exhibit A? The Columbus School Board's "look-alike" weapon definition upon which this principal apparently based the suspension: "Possessing, transmitting, or using any kind of firearm, knife, razor, club, chain or other look-alike or replica object or item which can be considered a weapon or used as a weapon." First, a finger is not an "object or item" because it's not separate from your body -- unless you cut it off in shop class. Second, a finger cannot be "considered a weapon" nor can it be "used as a weapon," unless you're Chuck Norris. Third, the policy is also pretty vague. Due process will render a law void for vagueness if its terms are not clearly defined such that a person of ordinary intelligence can readily identify what it prohibits. After reading that policy, do you know for sure what you can and can't bring to school? Did you conclude after reading it that you could not bring your own finger? The school district doesn't burn a lot of calories considering the precarious constitutionality of these policies. This is because the school can just suspend first, and plan on parents and children not having the time or money to invest in litigation over their constitutional rights. School violence is indeed a real threat. On the other hand we must not let terror cause us to jettison common sense. A child's punishment should fit his or her crime. Kindergartners playing cops and robbers using their finger are not the same as disturbed teens with AR-15's on a campus rampage. School officials here are exercising discretion without oversight, and their snap decisions on imaginary weapons are affecting real futures. Even in instances where a school official is capable of common sense, these mandatory sentencing policies can strip away whatever discretion and mercy could have been applied in an individual case. Mandatory sentencing is increasingly being reconsidered as more harmful than beneficial. If we're rethinking it for our inmates, perhaps we should rethink it for the students -- "cops" and "robbers" alike. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  Reprinted with permission of Hearst Communications, Inc. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/11/opinion/costello-girlie-is-good/index.html	opinion	Opinion: What's wrong with a 'girlie man'? - CNN.com	2014/02/11	Tuesday Feb 11 07:37:16 EST 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. (CNN) -- Like millions of Americans, I was glued to the Olympic Games over the weekend. I loved, simply loved, Ashley Wagner's strong, athletic performance on ice to one of my favorite songs from Pink Floyd. Truth told, I loved her pre-competition comments more. She told NBC, "People see figure skaters as these pretty little porcelain dolls that you put up on a shelf. But I am not a soft skater, and I don't want to be. I am strong; I'm powerful; I'm athletic. Most importantly to me I feel like I'm a woman out on the ice." Powerful. Athletic. A woman. Beautiful words in a world that denigrates female power by using phrases like, "man up," "girlie men" and the "feminization of our culture." And, I might add: What is wrong with that anyway? Last time I checked, roughly half our culture was already as such. I simply don't equate "feminine" or "girly" with "weakness." But, plenty of others -- men and women -- do. Conservative Fox News analyst Britt Hume recently blamed a "sort of feminized atmosphere" for New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's woes. It seems, in Hume's mind, our overly sensitive culture can no long abide a "masculine, muscular" guy like Christie. Arnold Schwarzenegger urged the crowd at the Republican National Convention in 2004 to support free enterprise and to not be "economic girlie men." Yes, he was capitalizing on his Hollywood image, but the phrase drew a standing ovation. Even strong women inadvertently slam female strength. Sarah Palin urged the GOP to "man up" in 2010 and support Tea Party candidates. Why didn't Palin shout, "woman up?" I know, I know. I've used the "man up" slam too. It's fun, cutting and effective. But, upon further reflection, is it? I love my friend Kelly's story about "girlie men." Nine months pregnant, and standing in line at Dunkin' Donuts behind two male construction workers, she overheard one of them say to the other, "You're such a girl." Kelly, exhausted from getting up at 2:30 a.m. to arrive at work on time snapped, "Then I'm sure he's stronger than you." I don't mean to pick on Republicans, but perhaps the use of "man up," "girlie men" and "the feminization of our culture" are hurting them needlessly. According to a new CNN/ORC poll, a majority of Americans, and women in particular, do not believe the Republican Party understands the problems and concerns of women today. As Republican Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington state told CNN: "When you look at our position on issues, a lot of times (a) majority of Americans agree with our positions. But it's the way that we talk about it that doesn't resonate, and we have to do a better job. I think it's fair to say there have been some comments which are offensive and they're not representative of the entire Republican Party." Which brings me back to the Olympics. For the first time ever, women will compete in ski jumping. They've been petitioning to compete in the Games since 1998. If you're wondering why it's taken 16 years, a hint: According to The New York Times, the president of the International Ski Federation, Gian-Franco Kasper, told NPR in 2005 that ski jumping "seems not to be appropriate for ladies from a medical point of view. Silly manly man. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  The opinions in this commentary are solely those of Carol Costello. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/24/opinion/costello-debate-climate-change/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Why are we still debating climate change? - CNN.com	2014/02/24	Monday Feb 24 07:34:30 EST 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday.  (CNN) -- There is no debate. Climate change is real. And, yes, we are, in part, to blame. There is a 97% consensus among scientific experts that humans are causing global warming. Ninety-seven percent! Yet some very vocal Americans continue to debate what is surely fact. The question is, why? Trust certainly plays a part. According to Gordon Gauchat, an associate professor of sociology from the University of Wisconsin, just 42% of adults in the U.S. have a great deal of confidence (PDF) in the scientific community. It's easy to understand why. Most Americans can't even name a living scientist. I suspect the closest many Americans get to a living, breathing scientist is the fictional Dr. Sheldon Cooper from CBS's sitcom "The Big Bang Theory." Sheldon is brilliant, condescending and narcissistic. Whose trust would he inspire? But trust isn't the only factor in why many Americans doubt climate change. I asked Anthony Leiserowitz, the director of the Yale Project on Climate Change Communication. His group has been studying the "why" question for more than a decade. "We've found there are six very (specific) categories that respond to this issue in different ways," he said. He calls these categories "Global Warming's Six Americas." Opinion: Obama's efforts on climate may not be enough The first group, "The Alarmed," is made up 16% of the public. They believe climate change is an urgent problem but have no clear idea of how to fix it. The second group (27%) is "The Concerned." They believe climate change is a problem but think it's more about polar bears and tiny islands than a problem that directly affects them. The third group, "The Cautious" (23%), are people on the fence. They haven't made up their minds whether global warming is real or if it's a man-made problem. The fourth group, "The Disengaged" (5%), doesn't know anything about climate change. The fifth group, "The Doubtful" (12%), do not think climate change is man-made. They think it's natural and poses no long-term risk. Leiserowitz says it's the sixth group, "The Dismissives," that is the most problematic, even though it comprises just 15% of the public. "They say it's a hoax, scientists are making up data, it's a U.N. conspiracy (or) Al Gore and his friends want to get rich." Leiserowitz goes on to say, "It's a really loud 15%. ... (It's a) pretty well-organized 15%." And thanks to the media and the political stage, that vocal minority is mighty. Former presidential candidate Rick Santorum told Glenn Beck on Fox News in 2011, "There is no such thing as global warming." Santorum went on to tell Rush Limbaugh, "It's just an excuse for more government control of your life, and I've never been for any scheme or even accepted the junk science behind the whole narrative." And just last week, tea party favorite Sen. Ted Cruz told CNN's Dana Bash, "Climate change, as they have defined it, can never be disproved, because whether it gets hotter or whether it gets colder, whatever happens, they'll say, well, it's changing, so it proves our theory." Meanwhile, the climate change "counter movement" has been helped along by an infusion of cash from, among others, some in the powerful fossil fuel industry. A recent study by Drexel University found that conservative foundations and others have bankrolled climate denial to the tune of $558 million between 2003 and 2010. "Money amplifies certain voices above others and, in effect, gives them a megaphone in the public square. Powerful funders are supporting the campaign to deny scientific findings about global warming and raise public doubts about the roots and remedies of this massive global threat," writes environmental scientist Robert J. Brulle, the study's author. The good news is, those uninformed minority voices are being quieted by nature and by those who have powerful voices. Extreme weather is forcing people to at least think about how global warming affects them directly. And, perhaps more important, many religious leaders, including evangelicals, are now "green." They concur with the scientific community and take it a step farther. They say we have a moral obligation to save the planet. Even the enormously popular Pope Francis may soon speak out on global warming. The Vatican press office says Francis is working on draft text on ecology. That text could turn into an encyclical, or a letter to bishops around the world, instructing that the "faithful must respect the environment." Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Carol Costello. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/13/opinion/cevallos-justin-bieber/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Bieber, don't argue with the lawyers - CNN.com	2014/03/13	Thursday Mar 13 07:25:15 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos is a CNN legal analyst, criminal defense attorney and partner at Cevallos & Wong, practicing in Pennsylvania and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  (CNN) -- When video of Justin Bieber's deposition surfaced this week and went viral, most of us were amusedespecially lawyers. (You can watch some of it here). As he answers questions for a battery case involving his bodyguard and a photographer, Bieber is glib and tries to parry the deposing attorney's questions. If we could see off camera, we might see Bieber's attorney subtly shaking his head in frustration. Counsel would know what Justin may not want to "beliebe": You only hurt yourself at a deposition when you bicker with the questioning attorney.  To those luckily unfamiliar with depositions, it may have looked simply like Bieber was being a defiant celebrity in an interview. But a deposition is no interview, and treating it that way is to invite catastrophe. Bieber made a number of missteps typical for beginners. Here's what he should have known: What is a deposition? Testifying at a deposition looks a little like testifying at a trial. There are lawyers, a stenographer, questions and answers. But a deposition is not a trial. At trial, you can tell your story and convince a jury of your position. A deposition, on the other hand, is the other side's only opportunity to find out what's in your mind, lock your story in writing, and have it ready to bash you over the head with if you testify inconsistently at trial. Generally, the more your opponent gets you to talk at a deposition, the more information he or she has to use against you at trial. An argumentative witness like Bieber is a dream come true for his opponent. Smile, you're on camera: Most depositions are not videotaped. It's expensive and the costs don't always justify the benefits. But Justin Bieber's opponents want him on camera, preferably preening and pugnacious. Watch, for example, when he answers: "Guess what? Guess what? I don't recall." Had the deposition only been recorded in a transcript, on paper that looks pretty innocent. But watch the oozing hostility on the video, and his dramatic "I don't recall" might play to a jury as "I am conveniently forgetting negative evidence." His opponent scored points deposing him on camera. You can't answer if you don't know the question:  Bieber can be seen interrupting questions to answer. A witness should always wait until the question has been completely asked. First, someone is typing the questions and answers into a transcript, and interruptions end up looking like someone spilled Scrabble letters onto a piece of paper: Unintelligible. A witness should only answer the question asked, lest he volunteer information to help the other side. And, if a question hasn't even been finished yet, a witness can't possibly limit the answer to the question asked -- he doesn't know what the question is yet! Best practice? Wait until the question is complete; pause and ask yourself if you understand the question; if you do, ask yourself if you know the answer to the question; if you do, only answer the question asked. Depositions are not soapboxes:  At a deposition, you will never "show up" the other side's lawyers. You are not there to show them the error of their ways and win them over. They will not turn to colleagues and announce: "You know what? After hearing this story, I think we're on the wrong side of justice here. We should pack up and go home. Thanks for your time, Mr. Bieber."   Objection to the objection: Bieber can be heard warning the lawyer not to ask about sensitive subjects, like his possible relationship with other celebrities. Elsewhere, he actually (and hilariously) interposes his own "objection." At a deposition, the lawyer asks the questions, not the witness.   The witness doesn't decide what's relevant. At a deposition, "relevant" subject matter is any question "reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." It doesn't have to be admissible evidence, just calculated to possibly lead to admissible evidence. Therefore, virtually any question is arguably proper. That's why grizzled veterans of "deps" routinely acknowledge that, practically, they can feel like a fishing expedition. Bieber may not like the questions, but he takes his chances with the judge if he refuses to answer. Arguing requires additional words:  Don't argue with the lawyer, Justin. The rules of evidence are always skewed in favor of the attorney, and against the witness. Witnesses are often smarter than the lawyer, but the rules simply give the lawyer an overwhelming advantage. Moreover, arguing takes more words than simply answering yes or no.  Bieber's opponent benefits from each additional word Bieber says, because that's part of another sentence the singer needs to testify consistently with at trial. We all know it's nearly impossible to tell the same story twice, but a good cross-examiner will make minor inconsistencies from an earlier deposition look like a flawed memory, or worse, paint the witness as a liar. In text form, sarcasm doesn't read like sarcasm:  Sarcasm is using words to indicate (sarcastically) the opposite of what you really want to say. Sarcasm really comes out in the way you say something.  Q: Did you shoot the sheriff? A: Oh yeah, sure. I shot the sheriff. See? Without the benefit of the voice and visual elements of sarcasm, on paper someone just admitted to shooting the sheriff, when maybe they wanted to be sarcastic. Devastating.  For the most part, you're on your own: Bieber's lawyer actively objected to protect his client, but deponents often feel like their lawyers aren't getting involved enough. For the most part, lawyers cannot. The rules of discovery seriously limit how much Bieber's attorney can object. He can object "for the record," which means the judge can later decide if the answer is ultimately admissible at trial. Of course, some questions are so outside the realm of relevance or civility that the attorney has to intervene. The questions about Bieber's personal relationships could potentially fall into this category, because they appear to stretch the boundaries. It wasn't all terrible: In fairness to Bieber, he did some things right. He made it clear when he did not understand a question. That's critical, because if he answers a question without fully understanding it, the court will later on assume he understood it when he answered it. Bieber appears on the video to really think about the meaning of the questions and his answers. If he could carve out his other behavior, in some respects, he's not half-bad as a deponent. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Danny Cevallos. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/27/opinion/costello-jesus-movie/index.html	opinion	Opinion: #HotJesus -- Must He be sexy? - CNN.com	2014/02/27	Thursday Feb 27 07:38:04 EST 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday.  (CNN) -- Clearly Jesus was sexy. After all, He is the Son of God. I don't mean to be disrespectful, but as I watched the trailer for the new movie, "Son of God," I found myself gawking at the actor portraying Jesus. Diogo Morgado is one hot dude. His Jesus looks more like Brad Pitt than that nice man with the beard in all those paintings. I'm not the only one gawking at Morgodo's Jesus. He inspired the hashtag, "#HotJesus". It went viral on Twitter. The actor told The New York Times he doesn't want his looks to distract from the movie, but, "If the message of Jesus was love, hope and compassion, and I can bring that to more people by being a more appealing Jesus, I am happy with that." Clearly we have a new trend. A "more appealing" Jesus is not just a better prophet, he's ... sexy. We actually don't know what Jesus looked like. We do know he was a carpenter, so perhaps Jesus was buff. But, I don't think when the Biblical Nathaniel asked, "Nazareth! Can anything good come from there?" and Phillip answered, "Come and see," they were talking about Jesus' beautiful face or chiseled abs. Yes, Jesus, as portrayed in countless paintings, has a six-pack. As comedian and author, Greg Behrendt joked, "I'd like to get ripped ... ripped like Jesus. Jesus was ripped. You've seen the pictures, right? He's ripped! Ripped. He's the son of God. He's not going to be walking around saying I've got back fat today, I'm so puffy." All joking aside, why must Jesus be sexy? Or ripped? Or even handsome? The Rev. Robert B. Lawton, SJ, a Jesuit priest and former president of Loyola Marymount University, says, "There is absolutely no indication that Jesus was good-looking and sexy. In fact there is a passage in the prophet Isaiah that is taken as referring to Jesus. It says this: "He had no form or majesty that we should look at him/nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by others; a man of suffering and acquainted with infirmity; and as one from whom others hide their faces he was despised, and we held him of no account." (Isaiah 53. 2-3.) While this might not be conclusive evidence, it's quite possible that Jesus was no Jewish Brad Pitt from Palestine. On the other hand, why wouldn't God create a perfect Son? "Anything that is sexy is going to attract people. People who might not go to the movie might want to check it out, particularly non-Christians," says the Rev. Lisa Jenkins, senior pastor of St. Matthew's Baptist Church in Harlem. "I don't see a problem with Jesus being attractive given our cultural context," she says. "I don't recall a Jesus who was not appealing to the eye. That's Hollywood." Jenkins is more concerned about what she considers an inaccurate portrayal of Jesus' ethnicity. The Rev. James Martin, SJ, editor-at-large for America Magazine, and author of the coming book, "Jesus: A Pilgrimage," agrees. "God did not choose to incarnate himself in Laguna Beach," he says. "He chose to incarnate Himself at a certain place, at a certain time in a certain person." And that person was a Palestinian Jew. "Many people have a hard time with the humanity of Jesus ... the closer He is to human physical perfection, the easier it is for some to accept Him." But, Martin says, there is a danger in that too. A physically perfect Jesus makes Him into a God pretending to be man. When Jesus was both human and divine. "He was like us in all things, except sin, as the theology goes," Martin says. "That means, He had a body, He got sick, He got tired, He may have sprained an ankle or two. There are passages in the Gospel showing Him falling asleep because He was tired. We tend to airbrush the physical imperfections away." Those traits make Jesus so much more accessible. So much more ... human. I tried to come up with a living person to compare to Jesus. That, of course, is impossible. The closest I can come, as a Catholic, is Pope Francis. I've grown to revere him. Is it because he's sexy? In a word: No. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Carol Costello. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/25/opinion/costello-feminism-revival/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Feminism is no longer a dirty word - CNN.com	2014/03/25	Tuesday Mar 25 09:01:28 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. (CNN) -- Happy birthday, Gloria Steinem! The "Face of Feminism" turns 80 Tuesday, and guess what? Feminism seems to be turning the corner -- again. Many young women are now embracing the term and rejecting the notion that feminists are hairy, ugly, man-hating, angry women. Heck, even Beyonce appeared on the cover of Steinem's magazine, Ms., last year. And lest critics point to Beyonce's overt sexuality as evidence of her hypocrisy, this year Queen Bey took it a step further and wrote an essay for "The Shriver Report: A Woman's Nation Pushes Back from the Brink." In it, Beyonce Knowles-Carter (note the hyphenated name!) proclaimed that "gender equality is a myth!" She went on to write, "the average working woman earns only 77 percent of what the average working man makes. But unless women and men both say this is unacceptable, things will not change." A few years ago, Emma Watson told People magazine of her "Harry Potter" character, "Hermione's not scared to be clever. I think sometimes really smart girls dumb themselves down a bit, and that's bad." Watson added she's a lot like Hermione: "I'm a bit of a feminist. I'm very competitive and challenging." That's not to say all young women feel the same. Or certain older men. 5 reasons why we love Gloria Steinem Rush Limbaugh perverts the word "feminist" all the time. He likes to call his targets "feminist extremists" and "feminazis." In 2012, Limbaugh took on Georgetown law student Sandra Fluke. She testified before Congress about the need for her Jesuit university to provide contraception insurance coverage for female students. She even admitted to being an "American woman who uses contraceptives." Oh, my! Limbaugh promptly labeled her a "feminazi" and a "slut." Or to quote the big man himself, "So, Ms. Fluke and the rest of you feminazis, here's the deal. If we are going to pay for your contraceptives, and thus pay for you to have sex, we want something for it, and I'll tell you what it is. We want you to post the videos online so we can all watch." It so evokes Bobby Riggs, right? A pro tennis player who, on September 20, 1973, challenged Billie Jean King to a tennis match because "the best way to handle women is to keep them barefoot and pregnant." Happy 80th, Gloria Steinem Courtney Martin, who co-edited Feministing.com -- a widely read and influential feminist blog -- and author of "Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters," says many young women have been afraid of the word "feminist" because it's been the target of a powerful smear campaign for decades. But, thanks largely to the Internet, smears like Limbaugh's are losing their power. At Feministing.com, she says, "we get mail from teenaged girls in the middle of Iowa who say ... 'I stumbled on your site and realized feminism isn't about man-hating and Birkenstocks.' " It's actually "kind of cool and counter-cultural." Wow. Really? Martin says yes. Because today's feminist movement realized it had to embrace aesthetics. Beauty and fun and relationships matter, too. So does the cool factor. Jon Stewart, anyone? Stewart has a cultural agenda, he's cool, and young people follow him in droves. Jessica Valenti, an author sometimes described as a feminist evangelist, says that when she delivered talks on feminism on college campuses a few years ago, one or two hands went up when she asked who considered themselves a feminist. Today, she says, "now almost all of them do." And, says Martin, it's not just because of "cool" or contraception or abortion rights. It's because of a more evolved definition of feminism. "Feminism means a fight for others," Martin said. It's about living a "feminist life." That means equality for everyone: women, children and, yes, men. That includes advocating on issues like immigration, human trafficking and so much more. Perhaps Lena Chen, an activist and media commentator for Salon, Glamour and her own blog, put it best. "In my lifetime feminism has evolved far beyond the binary identity politics of women vs. men," she wrote in an e-mail. "To me, feminism is one part of a larger global movement for liberation. Gender norms dictating how you ought to behave, dress, marry, or work are oppressive regardless of what body you inhabit or how you identify yourself." She says social media have helped many young activists in her generation speak with powerful voices. They no longer need one "figurehead" in "order to create change." They just need each other. So, happy birthday, Gloria. On your 80th birthday, feminism has indeed turned a corner. We'll have to see how far it has gone when you turn 90. Or 100. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Carol Costello. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/20/opinion/costello-noah-movie/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Is 'Noah' film sacred enough? - CNN.com	2014/03/20	Thursday Mar 20 07:25:05 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday.  (CNN) -- Can a secular, Hollywood insider make a religious movie Americans can fully, warmly embrace and -- wait for it -- actually learn from? We'll find out for sure on March 28 when the movie "Noah" opens in theaters nationwide. But, at first glance the answer is -- no. Paramount, eager to appeal to the religious crowd, arranged screenings of the movie before its release. Officially, some competing versions of the film "tested poorly." Sounds to me like audiences hated most of what they saw, although it's not clear exactly what version of the film they hated. Critics "lucky" enough to see early versions of the movie were sworn to secrecy. But, we do know their reaction prompted Paramount to not only recut the movie several times, but to take the extraordinary step of schmoozing the president of the National Religious Broadcasters group by agreeing to issue this disclaimer: "The film is inspired by the story of Noah. While artistic license has been taken, we believe that this film is true to the essence, values, and integrity of a story that is a cornerstone of faith for millions of people worldwide. The biblical story of Noah can be found in the book of Genesis." Even the actor who portrays Noah, Russell Crowe, tweeted: "Dear Holy Father @Pontifex , Sorry that I have caused havoc in your social media world. Seriously though, #Noah the movie will fascinate you." See, that's the thing. The director, a self-described atheist, is Darren Aronofsky, who produced the movie "Black Swan." He is way more interested -- and I mean way, way more interested -- in making Noah "fascinating" than "true to the Bible," telling the New Yorker, "'Noah' is the least biblical biblical film ever made. I don't give a f--- about the test scores (early negative audience reaction to "Noah"). My films are outside the scores." Put that in your pipe and smoke it! It's not that religious audiences dislike artistic license, they just hate it when Hollywood exploits a sacred story to promote a secular agenda. Brian Godawa, blogger and author of the book "Noah Primeval," sparked a firestorm when he reviewed an early script of "Noah." Godawa's article was titled: "Darren Aronofsky's Noah: Environmentalist Wacko." It promptly went viral. He says Aronofsky, at least early on, turned a Bible story into "environmental paganism." "It's not that (Christians) are intolerant, but look, you're playing with their sacred story." Godawa says the story of Noah was not about "God destroying the Earth because man was destroying the Earth," it was about God destroying the Earth because of "man's sinfulness." Mark Burnett, who produced the wildly successful "Son of God," agrees. "You know one thing is -- it's not just any book, correct? It's a sacred text. It's a sacred text that millions of people have willingly died for. It's not anything to mess around with. You've got to be faithful to a sacred text like this." Hollywood has been making movies about the Bible since the silent era. "Ben Hur" and "The Ten Commandments" were huge hits. Did they stick to the sacred script? No. And, you guessed it, some biblical scholars were not pleased. "Hollywood has an agenda and that's to sell films and make it exciting, not necessarily to convey historical accuracy nor to convey theological values," says Rabbi Steven Weil, executive vice president for the Orthodox Union. Even Cecil B. DeMille's popular "Ten Commandments," which portrayed the Jewish enslavement in Egypt, "gave a skewed, simplistic and primitive notion of religion. It almost had no value," Weil says. Seriously? No value? With all due respect, Rabbi Well, if we're in danger of becoming a nonreligious country -- according to Pew, just 58% of millennials believe in God -- why not attract young people to a movie that, at least, entertains them with stories inspired by the Bible? Movies unlike the hit film "Son of God," which while successful, arguably did not attract the non-Christian crowd. Reza Aslan, a religious scholar who wrote the book-and-soon-to-be-movie, "Zealot: the Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth" says, "'Son of God' is a movie made by Christians for Christians. Non-Christians will not go see 'Son of God' -- because it's a terrible movie." Aslan is eager to see "Noah," and, no, it doesn't bother him in the least if Aronofsky takes liberties with his portrayal of Noah. He says the story of Noah in the Bible is barely forty verses long. "If you wanted to make a biblically based Noah story it would be 10 minutes long. ...if you're going to approach this topic, you have no choice but to expand on it, to make things up, to create a narrative out of it." The most interesting aspects of the Noah story, he says, come after the floodwaters recede. "Noah gets drunk and lies naked in front of his son. Go and check it out. Open Genesis." I'm pretty sure Aronofsky won't include that scene in his movie, but what if he did? Dr. Alan Cooper, provost and Biblical scholar at The Jewish Theological Seminary, says there is no harm in interpreting the Bible in a secular, Hollywood kind of way. "The whole point of interpretation, whether it's in the form of a painting or a film, is to stimulate discussion of issues authors raise and don't always resolve. That's true throughout the Bible." Roy Johnston, the pastor of the Bayside megachurch in California, is on board. "You know, to be honest with you, I think unfortunately, a lot of Christians are known for what they are against, not what they are for. And so I think I'm going to go see the 'Noah' movie. I'm actually looking forward to it because at least it creates conversation." Amen, Pastor Roy, amen. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Carol Costello. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/03/opinion/costello-media-victims/index.html	opinion	Opinion: How the media deals with victims - CNN.com	2014/04/03	Thursday Apr 3 07:30:24 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Reporters say it all the time, and I agree: We loathe asking grieving family members to go on camera. When Malaysia's Prime Minister told families that Flight 370 had ended over the Indian Ocean, some journalists were at the Beijing hotel where loved ones had gathered for their agonizing wait. Some collapsed. Others could not contain their grief. They screamed. Some were so bereft they needed medical attention. Through it all cameras rolled. The Associated Press reported most relatives wanted reporters to leave. A security guard "restrained a man with close-cropped hair as he kicked a TV cameraman and shouted, 'Don't film. I'll beat you to death!' " That image frankly made me sick to my stomach. (CNN made the decision to air some of those pictures.) Yet, other images, captured by photojournalists, of angry family members storming the Malaysian Embassy in China to demand answers, filled me with pride. These images illustrate the most important part of our jobs. To give voice to the voiceless. Power to the powerless. Both scenarios are vivid examples of the decisions journalists must make when it comes to putting a "face" on a story. Emotion is a powerful tool. It draws viewers in. It persuades them to care about an important story that happens miles away. And when viewers care, governments and police are often forced to act. Kelly McBride, a media ethicist from the Poynter Institute, says, "That raw emotion is part of what is holding Malaysian authorities accountable." The challenge for journalists is to know when a search for truth crosses the line and becomes exploitative. Viewers often accuse us of not knowing where that line is, and sometimes they're right -- but, then again, many viewers don't know the difference, either. Not because they are uncaring, but because they are human. "Most people don't want to see victims exploited," McBride says. "Yet you can post the most exploitative interview ever and people will read it." Human beings, she adds, understand the world through stories. "The narrative of how that victimization happened and how that victim responded is incredibly meaningful. It helps us make sense of the world." That's why networks send their biggest stars to sit down with victims. Diane Sawyer's interview with Jaycee Dugard, the young woman kidnapped as a child, raped and rescued a decade later, garnered huge numbers. As the Hollywood Reporter put it: "The July, 2011, Primetime special, which aired from 9 to 11 p.m. ET ... attracted 14.8 million viewers. The ABC special was TV's most-watched summer newsmagazine telecast in seven years." Dugard followed up with a best-selling book, "A Stolen Life: A Memoir." The truth is, as a journalist, you just don't know whether a victim wants to share his or her story until you ask. Thirty years ago, in my first job in TV, I was sent to cover a story about a woman who had been carjacked, raped and stabbed in both eyes. Miraculously that woman, Phyllis Cottle, survived. I didn't know her name on that day, of course. In the 1980s few rape victims ever talked to the press. Reporters were told (and still are) never to report a rape victim's name without her consent. Never to show her face. After a week or so, my news director told me to try to get an interview with Phyllis. Stunned, I told him, "She's still in the hospital! She's blind. I will not do that. It's not right." My boss, Larry States, did not force me to call the hospital, but he did warn me. "Other reporters will ask her. You don't want to get beat on this story." I didn't believe him. At 22 years old I didn't yet realize how competitive TV news was until I watched my competitors on the 6:00 news that night. There was Phyllis Cottle, sitting up in a hospital bed, her eyes covered with huge white bandages. "Catch him," she pleaded on camera. Help find the man who did this. Much to my surprise, Phyllis had wanted to go on TV. She needed to re-establish some control over her life. And, more importantly, as she told me years later, she "wanted to catch the bastard." But, not all victims are like Phyllis Cottle. I've called many victims and their families in my 30 years in journalism. I've been excoriated and hung-up on, and each time I felt -- still feel -- I deserved it. But many people want to talk. The challenge comes when those people find themselves besieged by the media. "There is this never-ending cycle where victims who do want to participate frequently find themselves having to manage the media," McBride says. "They almost need an advocate to help them do that." A good example of that is what happened in Newtown, Connecticut, after Adam Lanza killed 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary. Reporters converged on that scarred town. They interviewed grieving families, friends of Lanza's mother, police, first responders, relentlessly. It was the right thing to do at the time. The tragedy transcended Newtown. It put a face on important issues in this country: how we should keep our kids safe at school, how we should treat the mentally ill and how we should decide who has the right to own firearms. But, at some point, reporters crossed into that "never-ending cycle" McBride spoke of. On the one-year anniversary of the shooting, Alissa Parker, who lost her daughter Emilie, wrote an article for the Huffington Post. In it, she said, "I will be honest, I hate when the media comes into town. I don't like seeing their vans with large satellite dishes parked on every corner. I don't like reporters bothering me to comment or give interviews about the 'latest' findings with the case. I don't like seeing my daughter's picture on the news associated with her violent death. And I really don't like talking about the anniversary of the shooting." Parker and other parents asked the media to stay away. CNN, among others, obeyed their wishes. But the state of Connecticut didn't wait for the media to self-regulate. It became, in essence, an advocate for families when it passed a law blocking public disclosure of any visual images depicting those who died in the Newtown shooting on the grounds they would "constitute an unwarranted invasion of privacy of the victim or the victim's surviving family members." That's a dangerous move in a country that values freedom of the press. Mary Schwind, managing director of the Connecticut Freedom of Information Commission, says, "I don't think the government should be in the position of determining what is good for its citizens to know and what is not good for its citizens to know. The press has routinely had that role in our society. We're going down a dangerous path when the government is making the decision based on emotion." I agree with Schwind. What if a police investigation is flawed? The public has a right to know how authorities used evidence to arrive at their conclusion. Still, looking at these pictures or picking up the phone to call someone who's suffered a loss are things I loathe. It's part of our jobs. But it's also our responsibility to decide whether there's a journalistic purpose for invading someone's privacy. Have I made the right call 100% of the time? The best I can tell you is: I tried. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/30/opinion/costello-civil-rights-groups-sterling/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Civil rights groups should have refused Sterling's money - CNN.com	2014/04/30	Wednesday Apr 30 07:48:02 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Who knew bigotry could bring in big dollars? Hey Donald Sterling, we know you refused to rent your apartments to blacks and Hispanics, but can you spare some change to help us fight for civil rights? That's essentially what transpired in Los Angeles between Sterling and the local chapter of the NAACP. Surely the organization knew Sterling was the subject of a Justice Department investigation into discriminatory housing practices. And surely it knew Sterling agreed to pay one of the biggest fines of its kind in history. It wasn't enough for the Los Angeles NAACP to shun Sterling. On the contrary, the NAACP awarded Sterling a lifetime achievement award. That was in 2009, just before the Donald T. Sterling organization gave the NAACP $5,000. "The NAACP airbrushed this away and simply said that Sterling has been a gem in giving oodles of tickets away to needy inner city kids and ladling out some cash to charities and sports camps for them," wrote Earl Ofari Hutchinson on Thehutchinsonreportnews.com. He's a sociologist who has written nine books on African-American politics, following the 2009 award. But, that was then. Except it's not. The local chapter of the NAACP was about to grant Sterling another lifetime achievement award until that pesky racist rant became public in the past few days. The rant where he berates his biracial girlfriend for posting an Instagram of herself with Magic Johnson, now a part owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers. "In your lousy f----g Instagrams, you don't have to have yourself with -- walking with black people," he says. Now the group is returning Sterling's money. He also won't be gracing the stage alongside another of their winners, "Person of the Year," the Rev. Al Sharpton. Today Sharpton asked the NBA to meet with civil rights organizations, including the national NAACP, about his former co-honoree. As for whether the LA chapter will do business again with Sterling? President Leon Jenkins says yes. "At some point when there has been proof, I think that would be a legitimate time for the NAACP to sit down with Sterling and try to work out how and why he did what he did and what is he going to do in the future. God teaches us to forgive. And the way I look at it, after a sustained period of just proof to the African-American community that those words don't really reflect his heart, I think there's room for forgiveness." Jenkins' remarks struck a nerve. "That dude needs to be fired." CNN contributor and ESPN Senior Writer LZ Granderson, a guest on my show, did not stop there. "He sounds like a fool. I'm just going to come to you straight up. To even suggest that somehow a sit-down with Donald Sterling now, when if anyone should have known about his racist past, (it) should have been a local chapter of the NAACP. First lawsuit was 2003. To pretend they'll sit down with him now and see if that's really in his heart when he's been sued by the Department of Justice, that man needs to resign or be fired." Before you jump on Granderson's bandwagon, it's worth noting that at least Jenkins returned Sterling's donation. Consider what's happening with the other contributions from the Donald T. Sterling Charitable Foundation of Beverly Hills. He donated $50,000 each to the LA Black Business Association and the United Negro College Fund. Anthony Owens, from UNCF, said the organization did not plan to return the money, which has already been passed along in the form of student scholarships. He also gave $30,000 to the Simon Wiesenthal Center's Museum of Tolerance in Los Angeles, which teaches about the Holocaust and seeks to enlighten visitors about all forms of discrimination. Keep in mind that on that now infamous tape, Sterling is also alleged to have said, "There are white Jews and black Jews." He then goes on to infer black Jews are "less than" white Jews. Still, the Simon Wiesenthal Center will not be giving back that $30,000. "The funds were used to combat racism and teach tolerance. We aren't going to return money of his that was used to do the very opposite of what he said on that tape." said Rabbi Marvin Hier, founder and dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center Museum of Tolerance. He said his organization didn't know about the housing discrimination allegations when it received the money. He said his staff is not large enough to do that kind of research. (A Google search would have done the trick). Oh, there's more. It seems Donald Sterling was a giving machine, despite his remarks showing disdain for African-Americans and black Jews. In an article in the Beverly Hills Times, his foundation boasts of giving $5 million in grants and scholarship money at a fancy party at Spago. That's twice the fine he is to pay the NBA. Thirty charities and eight high schools got checks at his gala after hearing a benediction from Rabbi David Baron and songs from Debbie Boone, of "You Light Up My Life" fame. Recipients included a smorgasbord of diverse organizations like 100 Black men, Nuevo Amanecer, Para Los Ninos, the Special Olympics, Yeshiva Gedolah and Junior Blind of America. Tuesday those organizations told CNN they were asking themselves what his intentions were, but none had resolved the issue of whether to return the money. (An organization not involved in that event, UCLA said in a statement Tuesday that it was rejecting a $3 million pledge from Sterling.) Para Los Ninos, which works to get a better education for impoverished children, said it didn't want his money any more. "We have asked them to take our pictures off their full-page ad. We will not be accepting their money, or any more money going forward from the Donald T. Sterling Foundation," said Celeste Anlauf, director of major gifts and communications. "We were among a number of organizations that got money from him and up until this moment we had not had an organizational conversation about his ethics. We knew there were some questions but we had every hope that he had the best of intentions." Perhaps Sterling did have "the best of intentions." But, "hoping" doesn't cut it. I certainly understand how difficult it is to raise money, but is selling your soul worth it? Apparently the NAACP thinks so. Derek Turner, the spokesperson for the national NAACP, notes that Strom Thurmond, the onetime pro-segregationist senator, was a member of the NAACP. "I'm sure they try to buy favor by supporting the NAACP. Strom Thurmond was a member of the NAACP. We certainly didn't go easy on Strom Thurmond and any of the politicians who support us." But in the Sterling case -- it did. CNN Political Analyst and HuffPost Live Host Marc Lamont Hill put it best: "You know what it is? We like sexy forms of racism. Someone is on the phone talking to their girlfriend about not letting black people at the game. Denying black people housing is far more damaging than the phone call he made." I could not agree more. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/06/opinion/cevallos-upskirt-ruling/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Upskirting ruling: Gross but legal - CNN.com	2014/03/06	Thursday Mar 6 05:04:24 EST 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos, a CNN legal analyst, is a criminal defense attorney practicing in Philadelphia, New York and the U.S. Virgin Islands. (CNN) -- On Wednesday, the Massachusetts Supreme Court issued an opinion in the matter of Commonwealth v. Michael Robertson, holding that it is not illegal to secretly photograph underneath a person's skirt on the subway, a practice widely known as "upskirting." The court, and the justice who wrote the opinion, have since weathered harsh -- and undeserved -- criticism. On Thursday, state lawmakers passed a bill banning upskirting, but that new lawwhich yet to be signed by the governor-- will still be subject to the same judicial scrutiny if it fails to adequately define the crime and the elements thereof. No one, including the members of the Massachusetts Supreme Court, condones upskirting. But the court is not in the business of "condoning" activity, nor is it in a position to adjudicate the fairness of the outcome. The court is in the very limited business of applying the law enacted by the legislatures, and it did just that. In fact, it carefully applied the definitions provided by both the Legislature and Webster's dictionary. The problem isn't the justice; it's the statute, as wrtitten, itself. General Laws c. 272,  105(b) provides: "Whoever willfully photographs, videotapes or electronically surveils another person who is nude or partially nude, with the intent to secretly conduct or hide such activity, when the other person in such place and circumstance would have a reasonable expectation of privacy in not being so photographed, videotaped or electronically surveilled, and without that person's knowledge and consent, shall be (guilty and punished)." The Court recognized that the statute, as written, breaks down into five elements: 1. The defendant willfully photographed. 2. The victim was nude or partially nude. 3. The defendant intended to photograph surreptitiously. 4. The victim was in a place where she would have a reasonable expectation of privacy in not being "so photographed." 5. The absence of consent. The only elements really in dispute were Nos. 2 and 4. The defendant's argument was that, under the statute, the female passenger was not "nude or partially nude," nor was she in a place where she had a reasonable expectation of privacy. The Commonwealth had to prove both of these for a conviction, along with the other elements. The failure of any one of these elements meant the failure of them all. Let's break this down. Partial nudity First, consider the legal definition of "partially nude." Most of our personal definitions of partial nudity were formed by vague warnings from opening credits on Cinemax movies in the 1990s. But "partial nudity" is actually a legal concept, with a legal definition. The law defines it as "the exposure of the human genitals, buttocks, pubic area or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola." Unfortunately, the statute, as written, ded not provide a definition of "exposure," so the court properly turned to Webster's dictionary, which defines it as "a condition or instance of being laid bare or exposed to view." To the court, "partially nude" means having private parts that are uncovered and visible to another person's eyes. "A person who is ... partially nude," according to the court, is a person who is partially clothed but whose private parts are exposed in plain view when photographed. It appears from the court's opinion that "partially nude" is not to be confused with "almost nude," as one might be if one's private parts are covered but she or he is wearing only underwear. Who knew nudity was so complicated? What happened to "I know it when I see it?" Apparently, that phrase works for defining pornography, but when it comes to nudity, the court is a bit of a stickler. In Massachusetts, it appears that a "female passenger on a MBTA trolley who is wearing a skirt, dress, or the like covering these parts of her body is not a person who is 'partially nude,' no matter what is or is not underneath the skirt by way of underwear or other clothing." Reasonable expectation of privacy The court went on to discuss the fourth statutory element: whether the victims were "in such place and circumstance (where the person) would have a reasonable expectation of privacy in not being so photographed." To the court, because the Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority is a public transit system operating in a public place that uses cameras, the two alleged victims -- and all female straphangers -- were not in a place where they reasonably would or could have had an expectation of privacy. The prosecution valiantly argued that privacy is less about the location where the photographing occurs than the location on the body photographed. The court dismissed this argument. While on the subway, a woman has a diminished expectation of privacy; she wears a skirt at her own risk. Though reasonable minds can definitely disagree about where we have "reasonable" expectations of privacy, for purposes of this case, it's immaterial. The way the statute was written, the defendant was "not guilty" the moment any one of the statutory elements failed. This case was over at "partial nudity." The opinion raises privacy issues unique to female clothing -- and, in particular, the skirt. It's a garment that from 90% of vantage points completely conceals undergarments. It's the other 10% that is problematic; sit or stand in the wrong place or position, and undergarments are now visible. Even more problematic, if a defendant photographs a woman at the beach in a bikini, she is neither partially nude nor does she have an expectation of privacy. But if she then puts on a sarong and hops on a bus, should it be illegal to photograph up her skirt? This definitely feels like a moral invasion of privacy, but under statutes like the one here, it might not be an illegal invasion of privacy. Unfortunately for female subway passengers -- and men in kilts -- being upskirted in public by a disturbed person and his camera-phone is still not illegal in Massachusetts. Under the statute the Court considered, the act neither photographs partial nudity nor violates a reasonable expectation of privacy. That understandably drew some ire. Indeed, if the law does not change, it represents a harbinger of failed future prosecutions of subway peeping Toms. But ire at the Massachusetts Supreme Court is misdirected. After all, the justices only interpreted the statute; they didn't write it. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Danny Cevallos. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/28/opinion/costello-republicans-african-americans/index.html	opinion	Opinion: GOP's problem wooing African-American voters - CNN.com	2014/04/28	Monday Apr 28 07:53:41 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Let's get real. The Republicans have a problem attracting African-American voters. And Cliven Bundy made it worse. Period. Not just because Bundy turned out to express racist views, but because of what he initially, falsely symbolized for some conservative Republicans: a humble, hard-working rancher who despises federal government overreach. The fact that armed militia turned up to protect Bundy's cattle only made it worse, because it fit ever more neatly into the kind of extremist narrative that frightens many people, including many African-Americans. They don't feel comfortable when conservatives, like Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, call the nation's first black President "the most lawless President in the nation's history." And they especially don't care for the kind of inflammatory rhetoric that kind of characterization invites. Example: "These are dangerous times because this is a lawless presidency and a pliant Congress. The President's willingness to violate the Constitution publicly calls into question his fitness for office. And that deafening silence from Capitol Hill manifests a spineless refusal to preserve constitutional government." That was written by Andrew Napolitano, who works for Fox News. The same Fox News that repeatedly validated Bundy and the armed men who chased the feds from government-owned land. The Republican National Committee loves to blame the "mainstream media" for its woes, but if it actually criticized right-wing media when it is clearly in the wrong, it would have more credibility with the very constituents it strives to attract. The Rev. Tony Minor, who heads People For the American Way's African American Ministers in Action, told me he doesn't believe mainstream Republicans buy what Napolitano is selling, but says, "what frightens me is when those Republicans who know those kind of statements are absurd, when they don't speak against it, their silence betrays us from thinking there's any hope of any partnership with them." In fairness, many conservatives did criticize Fox for its support of Cliven Bundy, but other Republicans, like Sen. Dean Heller of Nevada, called Bundy "a patriot" and only backed away from him when it became clear Bundy was racist. But when the Republican National Committee's Sean Spicer appeared on my show, CNN's "Newsroom," on Friday, he chose to attack me for not sufficiently covering Democrats who make horribly offensive remarks. Except we weren't talking about Democrats, a party already backed by minority voters, but Republicans and their worthy efforts to attract a broader base. The GOP is fighting an uphill battle and it knows it. In 2012, 93% of African-Americans voted for Barack Obama. As Larry Sabato, political scientist from the University of Virginia says, "Republicans belong to a party that desperately needs to deliver good news and appealing personalities to all minority voters." He adds, "Every move that is viewed as an insult is going to make it difficult for the Republican Party to make up ground it needs to win." In other words, Cliven Bundy: bad, bad, bad. Marc Lamont Hill of HuffPost Live agrees. He says if you take away Bundy's comments about slavery and focus on what he says about blacks and entitlements: "In many ways what he's saying isn't that different than mainstream Republican ideology and policy. Republicans in so many ways have codified those beliefs through policy or policy initiatives that aren't outliers -- that are part of the mainstream." Crystal Wright, a conservative Republican who edits the blog ConservativeBlackChick.com, says she is disgusted by the Bundy affair. She told me if the Republican plan to "widen the tent" included more than community outreach, Mr. Bundy might never have become a "folk hero." "What they (Republicans) need to do is stop looking at black people as this other kind of group," Wright said. "We (African-Americans) need to be brought into the party at all levels. I think if they would include more minorities and women at the table for strategic discussions, you wouldn't have these kind of missteps because somebody would say, hey, guys, I don't think we should embrace Mr. Bundy. Let's do our homework here." Other black Republicans disagree with Wright. Tara Wall, who is a senior staff member for the RNC, took exception to Wright's assessment of the Republican Party and to my asking Spicer to address Wright's concerns and name some African-American senior staff members. Tara Wall: Media's coverage of Bundy, race and GOP a disservice Why is it beneath the dignity of the RNC to reveal the results of its much publicized "autopsy" of its defeat in 2012 or its subsequent plan to attract more African-Americans? One of its stated goals is to "...improve on promoting African-American staff and candidates within the party. The GOP should utilize African-American elected officials as surrogates both in their communities and with the national media. At the staff level, the personnel should be visible and involved in senior political and budget decisions and not be limited to demographic outreach." Hello! This is politics, not the closed-door deliberations of the Federal Reserve Board. Visibility is part of the game, and transparency is an increasing necessity for the American voter. So, let's get real. The Republicans have a problem attracting African-American voters. And Cliven Bundy made it worse. Period. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/26/opinion/cevallos-snake-handling-law/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Snakes and church vs. state - CNN.com	2014/02/26	Wednesday Feb 26 07:48:44 EST 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos, a CNN legal analyst, is a criminal defense attorney practicing in Philadelphia, New York and the U.S. Virgin Islands. (CNN) -- The recent death of the "snake-handling" pastor of a small Pentecostal church in Kentucky has raised an age-old conflict between church and state. Jamie Coots, the pastor of the Full Gospel Tabernacle in Jesus Name in Middlesboro, Kentucky, died after being bitten on his right hand by a rattlesnake during a weekend church service where he was handling rattlesnakes willingly, it seems. It has been reported that the late pastor's son Cody Coots has continued the snake-handling tradition even after his father's death. People handle snakes at church for the same reason that people do lots of things: the Bible tells them so. "And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover." Mark 16:17-18  This biblical passage is the genesis of serpent-handling for churches of the Holiness movement and the Pentecostal Church of God. For the faithful, those two verses are the authority for dancing with or passing around poisonous snakes during church services. Moreover, if bitten, they are likely to refuse medical treatment and rely upon God to heal them. There's just one problem with this Biblical authority. Another authority, known as the Commonwealth of Kentucky. In Kentucky, the practice is illegal. Well, barely. Under the applicable section KRS 437.060, any person who displays, handles or uses a snake in connection with any religious gathering shall be fined $50 to 100. Hardly a capital offense. The Kentucky legislature has sent a message: poisonous snake-handling is marginally illegal -- but not as illegal as drugs or other crimes. The legislature's assigned penalty appears to fall somewhere between a speeding ticket and an overdue library book. This illegal practice persists so openly that a reality TV show flouts the law by filming a crime in progress. When a network has a series based primarily on filming people breaking the law in your state, it's fair to say your law has lost some of its bite. Belief Blog: A lethal Appalachian tradition Ultimately, the issue is whether a state even has authority to regulate a practice that is primarily faith-based. The First Amendment to the United States Constitution declares "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." The 14th Amendment, in turn, prohibits state legislatures from doing the same. However, equally as formidable is the state's constitutionally reserved "police power." The name itself is a misnomer; the power is much more than your local police officer's ability to make an arrest. The states' traditional police power is their exclusive authority to regulate the public health, safety and morals of their residents. Kentucky's authority to outlaw snake-handling derives from this police power. The issue here is whether a state has the power to regulate religious activity; so the two constitutional authorities meet head-to-head. In Jones v. City of Opelika, the Supreme Court addressed the conflict between freedom of religion and the police power of a state. The court articulated an important but still misunderstood concept about religious freedom: the First Amendment embraces two distinct concepts -- the freedom to believe and the freedom to act. The first is absolute, but the second cannot be absolute. This makes sense. Your thoughts alone, without speech or any action, are never criminal, even if of the most prurient, vile nature (at least for now -- once Apple figures out an app to download your thoughts, they may someday be criminalized). Your conduct, on the other hand, can be regulated for the protection of society. While citizens of the United States have an unlimited right to our religious beliefs, our right to act within those beliefs is tempered by a state's duty to protect its citizens. In Lawson v. Commonwealth, Kentucky's Supreme Court considered a direct challenge to its snake-handling statute, using the guidance of the Supreme Court in the Jones case. The court held that the state could properly regulate the time, place and manner of religious exercise -- such as passing snakes around at church -- where the regulation is necessary for the safeguarding of the health, good order and comfort of the community. Legally, Kentucky's interest in protecting its residents outweighs a Kentuckian's interest in celebrating his religion by handling rattlesnakes. According to the courts, the state can prohibit this practice. But Kentucky still barely criminalizes the practice. Handling poisonous snakes is potentially more dangerous than other regularly prosecuted activities, such as drug use. Ask yourself: Would you rather your child be at a party where someone is passing around a water bong or a water moccasin? Whatever the reason for not aggressively prosecuting the already-illegal practice, the fact is that it presents a known danger. Kentucky is one of the states that has seen fit to criminalize the practice, and it has the power to do so. Unfortunately, if Kentucky doesn't exercise its police power and impose stricter penalties, then the snakes will continue to impose their own punishment, which is often the death penalty. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Danny Cevallos   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/06/opinion/costello-understand-what-rape-means/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Is America really clueless about the meaning of rape? - CNN.com	2014/05/06	Tuesday May 6 07:39:54 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Carol Costello anchors the 9 to 11 a.m. ET edition of CNN's "Newsroom" each weekday. Watch the 10 a.m. ET hour of Newsroom Tuesday for a segment on this topic. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- It's 2014, yet many Americans -- including a sitting judge -- apparently don't know how to define rape. They find it difficult to figure out who is an actual victim. They can't even figure out who's a rapist. Even when the accused pleads guilty to...rape. I'm not kidding. It happened in Dallas County, Texas. A young man named Sir Young admitted, in court, to forcing himself on a 14-year-old classmate. Young's attorney, Scottie Allen, said the girl expressed interest in having sex with Young, "just not on school grounds." Apparently Young couldn't wait. As his attorney put it: "he made a very, very bad judgment," and ignored the victim's objections and admitted that to police. Fancy that! Rape, a "bad judgment." Apparently that's not out of the realm of sound judicial thinking because Judge Jeanine Howard agreed. She sentenced Young to deferred probation and community service because -- wait for it -- it was partly the victim's fault. Howard told the Dallas Morning News the girl -- who was in junior high school -- wasn't a virgin and had given birth to a baby. If that's an invitation to rape, is every girl or woman who's had sex or had a baby fair game? "Rape is the only crime in which we turn the lens onto the survivor, the victim, and not onto the perpetrator," said Bobbie Villareal, executive director of the Dallas Rape Crisis Center. "When someone gets shot, we don't ever ask them, why didn't you get away from that bullet?" Lest you think that judge in Texas is the only person on earth who's confused about rape, she's not. From former Rep. Todd Akin's assertion there's such a thing as "legitimate rape" (as opposed to illegitimate rape?) to Whoopi Goldberg's claim that director Roman Polanski's assault on a 13-year-old girl wasn't "rape-rape," to a defense attorney in Cleveland who called an 11-year-old gang rape victim "a spider" who lured men into her web, all seemed really, really confused about whether a crime even occurred. Perhaps one of the worst examples happened in Montana. District Judge G. Todd Baugh proclaimed a 14-year-old victim, who committed suicide before the trial started, "older than her chronological age" and "probably as much in control of the situation as the defendant." The defendant in this case, the girl's 31-year-old teacher, Stacy Dean Rambold. Baugh sentenced Rambold to 15 years, then suspended all but 31 days. Sure, Rambold's sentence was overturned, but only after massive public outcry. It's 2014. Why are such things still happening? Rape is not a "lapse in judgment." And who cares, defense attorney Allen, if an admitted rapist is "very talented, very gifted," and had scholarship offers? Rape is a crime. Is murder a "lapse in judgment" that could spoil a killer's bright future? America actually seems a bit squeamish about calling someone a rapist. Perhaps because there is a perception that women often accuse men unfairly. Except that's not true. According to a 2012 Justice Department Study, just 4.9% of rape allegations were unfounded. Opinion: Rape cases -- when judges just don't get it Jessica Valenti, a feminist writer for the Guardian says it's more complicated than that. She writes: "Part of the problem is that America has never had a clear, accepted cultural definition of what rape is. Even legal definitions have been confusing. It took until 2013 for the FBI to change its 1929 definition of rape from "the carnal knowledge of a female, forcibly and against her will" to the new version: "Penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim." Perhaps the new definition will help. But I'm not convinced. What explanation can there be for sitting judges in separate states to place partial blame on two 14-year-old girls for their own sexual assault? Unless they believe as Humbert Humbert did in Vladimir Nabokov's "Lolita," a book about a grown man who "fell in love" with a 12-year old girl: "... it was she who seduced me," he said. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/20/opinion/cevallos-capital-one-contracts/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Did you say Capital One could visit? - CNN.com	2014/02/20	Thursday Feb 20 07:29:50 EST 2014	 --> adType:bst  Editor's note: Danny Cevallos, a CNN legal analyst, is a criminal defense attorney practicing in Philadelphia, New York and the U.S. Virgin Islands. (CNN) -- Capital One wants to know what's in your wallet. It also wants to know your address, so its representatives can come visit if you owe money. At least, those are the accusations leveled at the credit card giant this week. At first blush, it seems that Capital One would be barred from this activity by federal law. Specifically, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act outlaws even less-intrusive behavior. Under the act, debt collectors are prohibited from making repeated phone calls, calling before 8 a.m. or after 9 p.m., or even calling at times the collector should have known are inconvenient. Certainly, the debt collection act would frown upon showing up at a debtor's home. It would. The problem is, the act protects debtors against abusive collection tactics by third-party debt collectors and debt buyers only. It does not apply to the original creditor. There's nothing in the debt collection act that prevents Capital One from showing up at your home: In fact, the law doesn't prevent the original creditor from doing anything. As long as no other law bars this activity, the parties -- consumer and credit card company -- appear to be free to enter into a contract. Capital One's rules said customers can be contacted by mail, phone, e-mail or "personal visit." Does that mean consumers can unwittingly agree to their credit card company showing up at their door because they missed a payment? Modern contract law is on a collision course with technology. Historically, contracts have been paper, detailed in a reasonable number of pages. The expectation that a consumer would read an entire contract was not unreasonable. Today, the price of existing in the modern world is hastily clicking our assent to an endless number of "clickwrap" agreements, often dozens of pages long, where you simply scroll through and check a box to complete your purchase. Sure, you can read all the fine print, if you have an extra four hours a day. And if you don't agree with Section 109(g)(3) of some online purchase agreement, you can refuse to click -- but then again, who loses? Now, you can't order those commemorative plates or pair of shoes for delivery. None of these contract terms is negotiable. They are all "take it or leave it." Because we all depend on the Internet to a large extent for goods and services, most of us grit our teeth and agree -- Section 109(g)(3) and all. Contract law has been slow to acknowledge this reality. Courts have upheld these online "agreements" based on the contract principles that consumers should read every page of an agreement before they sign it. That advice is still sound today -- but is it reasonable? Is the only other option to wander the Earth as the lone Luddite, disconnected from progress and civilization? Perhaps contract law should intervene to prevent the mega-corporation from sneaking or forcing contract terms upon an unsuspecting public. But wait. The social implications of this suggestion are equally ominous: Are we entering an era where citizens cannot be expected to take responsibility for the contracts they enter into? On one hand, it seems wrong that corporations, with their legal teams, should be permitted to impose 50 pages of one-sided terms upon the average Joe. On the other hand, have we the people gotten to the point where we aren't competent enough to be responsible for the contracts we willingly sign? We the people apparently are not alone. Even Capital One doesn't understand its contracts. Capital One was quick to release a statement saying that it does not visit cardholders, nor does it send debt collectors to homes or offices. Capital One will maintain that the credit card rules sent to cardholders have the same language as those sent to anyone who buys a car or sports vehicle through a secured loan from the bank. If those buyers default, Capital One has acknowledged that its representatives might actually visit those homes to repossess. That's fine, but why did the cardholders receive the same contracts? The bank is considering creating two separate agreements because this language doesn't apply to the general cardholder base. That's fine, but why did the change come only after bad press? Notice one common theme? All the misunderstandings, the accidents and the oversights seem to accrue to the benefit of Capital One. Coincidence? Accident? I'm sure it is. Credit card companies always have their customers' best interests at heart. And if you're not convinced, just ask them ... when they ring your doorbell. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Danny Cevallos. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/studentnews/sn-curriculum-thu/index.html	us	CNN Student News - May 29, 2014 - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 05:37:06 EDT 2014	(CNN Student News) -- May 29, 2014 President Obama discusses his foreign policy during a speech at West Point. We'll tell you what critics have said regarding this issue and how the president responded. Today's show also looks back on the turbulent and triumphant life of Maya Angelou, and we pass along some tips on driving safely during a dangerous season. We'll also peer into what the future may hold for world cities. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM Check this space for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day:  In your opinion, what should news media include when reporting on a presidential speech? Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show: 1. U.S. Military Academy 2. foreign policy 3. Maya Angelou Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program? 1. What is meant by the term "foreign policy"? What major foreign policy points did President Obama address during yesterday's speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point? What have critics said about the president's foreign policy? 2. Who was Maya Angelou? What do we know about her childhood? Who are some of the civil rights leaders she worked with? What are some of the different careers that she had? What are some of the awards she received? 3. What is Bluefin-21? What was it searching for? Where was it conducting its missions? Why are authorities temporarily suspending this search? What is the role of the Chinese vessel in this area? 4. What does the "city of the future" look like in Songdo, South Korea? What are some of the features of Masdar City in Abu Dhabi? What will homes and streets look like in Fujisawa, Japan? Who is financing each of these cities? So far, how have these cities been received? What is being done to attract more residents? 5. Why is AAA warning teens about the 100 days that begin on Memorial Day? What tips does the organization offer for safer teen driving? Discussion Questions: 1. What is your opinion of President Obama's foreign policy? Do you agree or disagree with his approach to events in Ukraine, Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan? Explain. Are there any foreign policy issues that you think deserve more or less attention than they are getting? Explain. 2. What do you think happened to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? Why do you think that the plane has not yet been found? Do you think the search should continue? Why or why not? 3. In what ways are the futuristic cities seen in the video "laboratories"? What do you think could be learned here? Would you consider living in one of these cities? Why or why not? 4. In spite of numerous laws, classes, and PSAs, car accidents are still a leading cause of death for teenagers. What, if anything, do you think can be done to promote safer driving among teens? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/new-york-ferret-ban-petition/index.html	us	New York ferret fans find foothold as city reconsiders ban - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 05:47:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Ferrets could be making a comeback in the Big Apple. The furry, four-legged animal -- long absent from the city -- could weasel its way back into the hearts of New Yorkers based on a petition submitted to the Department of Health asking it to repeal the city's 15-year ban on ferrets as pets. The city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene said Wednesday that it is considering an amendment to the Health Code. Ariel Jasper, a Brooklyn College master's student, said she drafted the petition in January because she has always loved ferrets and wants to correct the current Health Code, which she claims contains many inaccuracies about ferrets. "I looked into the Health Code and I saw that they were labeled as wild, dangerous animals, and that confused me because ferrets have been domesticated for over 2,000 years," Jasper told CNN. "They were actually domesticated before the cat," Jasper said. Owning a ferret is legal in 48 states, including in the remainder of New York state, she added. Jasper said that as part of her petition, she recommended mandatory rabies vaccinations for the animals, spaying and neutering, leash laws, as well as micro-chipping requirements so that they can be tracked if anyone gets rid of them. The city's ban on ferrets dates back to June 1999 under then-Mayor Rudy Giuliani. The Health Department said in its announcement that it would be irresponsible from a public safety perspective to allow a ferret to be kept as a pet in New York City, citing their unpredictable behavior and reports that they are prone to attacking humans. That same year, Giuliani had a famous dust-up with a ferret lover during his "Live From City Hall" radio show. "There's something deranged about you," Giuliani said to caller and ferret advocate David Guthartz. "The excessive concern that you have for ferrets is something you should examine with a therapist." The Humane Society calls ferrets "cute and inquisitive" and lists them as belonging to a family of animals that includes weasels and minks -- not rodents. And the ASPCA has them on a list of species suitable as companion animals along with dogs, cats and birds. Mayor Michael Bloomberg upheld his predecessor's ferret ban, but current Mayor Bill de Blasio has not spoken about the issue. But he has already been labeled an animal lover by some after his efforts to remove Central Park carriage horses from their "congested, urban setting." CNN's attempts to reach de Blasio Wednesday went unanswered. "I think there are more important things for the mayor to focus on," resident Shard Pierre told CNN. "There's income distribution problems, rent problems, crime, bigger issues on the agenda than to worry about whether or not people are allowed to own ferrets." "I'm an animal lover so if the owner of these ferrets will give them a great life and great experience in this city then I'm all for it," resident Francisco Aliwalas said. "But there greater things in the city that need to be addressed than little furry elongated creatures scurrying along hardwood floors of apartments." The Health Department, led by de Blasio appointee Dr. Mary T. Bassett, said that a public hearing and comment period will be held in the fall, followed by a Board of Health vote. CNN's Haimy Assefa, Chris Welch, Adam Reiss and Jason Carroll contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/living/maya-angelou-nikki-giovanni-identity/index.html	living	Nikki Giovanni on Maya Angelou quotes, stories - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 05:46:16 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Nikki Giovanni is a poet, writer, and a professor at Virginia Tech. Her latest work is "Chasing Utopia: A Hybrid."  (CNN) -- I must have met Doc, as we called Maya Angelou, way before I remember. We often attended readings, but the first time she absolutely caught my attention was at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts. It wasn't all that cold, but Maya and others had fur coats on. My mother, who was a big fan of the Seven Sisters colleges, had come with me. We both had on cloth coats. Doc, as we all know, was 6 feet or taller. Mommy was 4-foot-11, and I am 5-foot-2. Not only were we shorter, we felt smaller. I looked at that group and made a silent vow to never allow my mother to be with this group again without a fur coat. We purchased one soon after. When Mommy died, I shared that story with Doc. Maya laughed. "We had no idea," she said. And laughed again. Mommy owes Doc. When Doc moved to Winston-Salem, North Carolina, she was not far from me in Virginia, so I got to see a lot of her. If I had any inkling she was frying chicken, I'd go down and spend the night. When Jay-Z sent her a case of wonderfully expensive champagne, those days I had to spend the night! Everyone came to Doc's place, which was great fun. You'd wake up in the morning not knowing who would be down to breakfast. The superstars; the wonderfully funny; old friends from another country; a congressman. And Doc treated them all the same. Her ability to speak to everyone in the same voice was what made her the force she was. Our only disagreements were about food. She was a great cook, and I think of myself as a good one. We were arguing about rack of lamb, one of my specialties. My recipe comes from the late, great country cook Edna Lewis. I went home after my visit and decided I should not just talk the talk but also walk the walk. I called my good friend Joanne Gabbin from Furious Flower Poetry Center to have her come with me to Doc's to cook. Jo is a great cook, too. We got on Doc's calendar, packed all our ingredients and spices and boogied on down. Doc sat at the head of the table, where she could see everything going on in the kitchen. She inspected the lamb, checked the veggies, tasted everything and praised Joanne. I think she loved me a little bit because she, like my only living aunt, always felt free to make minor corrections. "I think the lamb is a bit overdone," she offered. "Well Edna Lewis is in heaven, and I checked with her before I put this on the table," I responded. We both laughed. I know if the lamb was not done properly, she would have eaten it and not said a word. I wanted to fry chicken for her, too, but time just ran out. Our mutual friend, the late author Alex Haley, always said, "Find the good and praise it." Maya took it to heart. She would always seek the good in any situation, or she avoided the question. In all my years of knowing her, I only heard her once speak ill of someone and that was well deserved. Like everyone, I have read and reread "I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings." And like that caged bird, Maya sought an inner freedom. We only have to look at her life to see that she took every ounce of joy life had to offer. I will remember her as a courageous woman who always wanted to love, and wish her a rightful place in literature. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Nikki Giovanni. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/asia/malaysia-airlines-pinging/index.html	world	Navy official: Pings not thought to be from Flight 370's black boxes - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:05:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The four acoustic pings at the center of the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 for the past seven weeks are no longer believed to have come from the plane's black boxes, a U.S. Navy official told CNN. The acknowledgment came Wednesday as searchers wrapped up the first phase of the search, having scanned 329 square miles of ocean floor without finding any wreckage from the missing Boeing 777. Authorities now almost universally believe the pings did not come from the data or cockpit voice recorders, but instead came from some other man-made source unrelated to the jetliner that disappeared on March 8, according to Michael Dean, the Navy's deputy director of ocean engineering. If the pings had come from the recorders, searchers would have found them, he said. CNN's David Molko contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/showbiz/chelsea-handler-chelsea-lately-finale/index.html	entertainment	Chelsea Handler stepping down from E! talk show - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:04:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Chelsea Handler's late-night television show on E!, "Chelsea Lately," will come to a close in August, freeing the comedian to create a different show elsewhere. The "Chelsea Lately" finale date, August 26, was announced by the cable channel on Wednesday, capping months of speculation about Handler and E!'s plans to split. Her E! contract expires at the end of this year. In a national late-night field dominated by men, Handler is the only woman with a daily talk show. "Chelsea Lately" started in July 2007 and gradually became a signature part of the E! lineup. Handler was never shy about criticizing E! on the air or off. And Handler and her representatives have been intimating for a while now that she is ready to leave E! for another television network or for a new outlet such as Netflix. Wednesday's announcement made her exit official -- a full three months ahead of her contract expiration date. It is unclear where she will appear next. "I myself am more surprised than anyone that I was able to hold down a job for seven years, and it was a fantastic seven years," she said in a statement. "I will always look back at my time on E! as most people look back at their time in college. I'm glad I went." Suzanne Kolb, the president of E!, praised Handler for adding "a distinct voice to late night with her acerbic wit and fearless commentary." While E! develops a possible new late-night show, it will run "E! News" at 11 p. m. In an interview on CNN's "Piers Morgan Live" earlier this year, Handler discussed her status as the only female comic in late night and said, "If I decided not to do late night anymore, being the only woman in late night, it would be a problem, because then I'm leaving that space empty." "So I kind of have to find someone to replace me," she remarked. "So that's what I'm doing right now." There was no indication, however, that Handler will be involved in the E! development process.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/justice/bulger-connolly-fbi-conviction-overturned/index.html	crime	Murder conviction of ex-FBI agent linked to Whitey Bulger overturned - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:21:16 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A Florida court has vacated the murder conviction of former FBI agent John Connolly, the informant handler of convicted Boston mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger, according to court documents. Citing a statute of limitations issue, the Florida Court of Appeals reversed the 2008 second-degree murder conviction for Connolly's alleged role in the 1982 death of a Florida businessman. In 2005 Connolly was charged with first-degree premeditated murder and conspiracy to commit first-degree murder. During his 2008 trial, prosecutors presented evidence that in 1982, Connolly, then an FBI agent, schemed with Bulger and the Winter Hill gang to kill businessman John Callahan. It was revealed in court that Connolly, Bulger and associates met over several weeks before the slaying, but it was "undisputed" that hit man James Martorano, and not Connolly, fired the murder weapon. The jury convicted Connolly of second-degree murder with a firearm, a lesser included offense of first-degree murder. The Florida Court of Appeals on Wednesday determined that prosecutors had incorrectly requested that the jury be allowed to convict on second-degree murder with a weapon, instead of first-degree murder, because Connolly's gun was not used in the crime. This allowance, the court said, subsequently reclassified and elevated Connolly's conviction to a crime with a potential life sentence without a statute of limitation. Connolly was sentenced to 40 years in prison in 2009. In the 2-1 decision, the court reasoned, "without the fundamentally erroneous reclassification" of this murder charge to second-degree murder with a weapon, Connolly's conviction would have been barred by the applicable four-year statute of limitations. The court vacated the conviction and remanded the case to the trial court, ordering that Connolly be discharged, adding that the "discharge shall be stayed until any and all post-appeal motions are final. The U.S. attorney's office in Boston expressed disappointment about the ruling. "Today a Florida appeals court, in a split decision, reversed itself after unanimously affirming John Connolly's murder conviction three years ago. The decision is surprising and disheartening," the office said in a statement. "This case was hard fought and led to the successful prosecution of a deeply corrupt federal agent. We intend to urge the Florida Attorney General to challenge this decision." Connolly allegedly accepted payoffs and, in turn, tipped off Bulger and his associate Stephen "The Rifleman" Flemmi to the identities of cooperating witnesses and pending investigations, according to information revealed in court during Bulger's racketeering trial last year. Connolly was serving a 40-year sentence on second-degree murder charges for allegedly leaking the identity of Callahan, who had agreed to cooperate against Bulger's Winter Hill Gang. During the first two decades of his FBI career, Connolly won kudos in the bureau's Boston office, cultivating informants against New England mobsters. Prosecutors during his trial said Connolly was corrupted by his two highest-ranking snitches: Bulger and Flemmi. Connolly retired from the FBI in 1990 and later was indicted on federal racketeering and other charges stemming from his long relationship with Bulger and Flemmi. He was convicted of racketeering in 2002 and was serving a 10-year federal prison sentence when he was indicted in 2005 in the Callahan slaying. CNN's Rich Phillips contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/americas/brazil-world-cup-spoiled-food/index.html	world	Brazil finds expired food at hotels hosting World Cup teams - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:18:38 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/travel/bourdain-chiang-mai/index.html	travel	Thailand travel: 10 essential Chiang Mai experiences - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:51:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- With spectacular mountains, vibrant hill tribes and a relaxed vibe, Thailand's unofficial "second city" of Chiang Mai is everything Bangkok isn't. As the travel hub for northern Thailand, the city of Chiang Mai (population 1.6 million) and the province that shares its name blend ancient culture and natural wonders to create a character that's unique to a region once known as the Kingdom of a Million Rice Fields, or "Lanna" in Thai. In a kind of repeat of history, parts of the city have been invaded by regional neighbors in recent years. In the past, invaders came from Burma, Siam or other regional rivals. This time, it's tour groups from China, lured by the success of a massive-hit Chinese comedy movie called "Lost in Thailand," which is partially based in Chiang Mai. Fortunately, you can still lose yourself in Chiang Mai's majestic mountains, find a quiet picnic spot next to a cascading stream or visit with its friendly people. 1. Eating khao soi Nothing says "I'm in Chiang Mai" more than slurping a piquant bowl of khao soi, noodles bathed in an intense curry broth topped with crispy noodles. The dish is traditionally served with chicken or beef with a side of chili paste, pickled cabbage, raw shallots and wedge of lime. Arguably northern Thailand's most famous dish, khao soi can be found from unnamed holes-in-the-wall to five-star resorts, all peddling renditions of the "best" noodles money can buy. For a fail-safe lunchtime introduction, Lam Duan Faham or Samoer Jai, both on Chiang Mai's Charoenrat Road, are terrific choices. A glass of the herbal drink bai bua bok (Asian pennywort) helps you cool off after the spicy meal. MORE: The top snacks and curries in Chiang Mai 2. Camping under the stars With seven national parks in the province, many door-to-doi (mountain) excursions are within easy striking distance of the Chiang Mai city center. You can pitch your own tent at designated campsites or rent one on arrival from the park headquarters. Most parks also have cabins or huts for rent, though these must be reserved, easiest via the Department of National Parks website. Ob Luang National Park, with its dramatic river-canyon landscape littered with boulders, and Doi Inthanon National Park, named after the highest peak in the country, offer waterfall and cave attractions by day and stargazing by night. Both are within a two-hour drive from town. MORE: 10 things in Chiang Mai most visitors don't see 3. Visiting Doi Suthep Presiding over the mountainous horizon to the northwest of the city, Doi Suthep mountain is the most recognizable landmark in Chiang Mai. Its glimmering mountaintop temple is a popular first stop for visitors. Most make the trek up the 300-plus steps of the Naga staircase to visit the working monastery in the daytime, from which, weather permitting, you can get panoramic views of the city. A better time to go is in the early hours of the morning, when you can avoid the heat and crowds, and watch the flickering lights of the city fade as the sun rises. The climb to the top is a thigh-buster, but it's worth it for the great views. There's also a scenic road up Doi Suthep for those who prefer to drive. 4. Trekking to hill tribe villages Nearby hills or dois mean there are plenty of nature-based day trips in the area, often with a waterfall to cool off in. Tour operators will often combine a handful of excursions in a single day. The best and priciest outfits in town provide private customized tours that allow you to choose your activities and not be herded along with the crowd. A great leisurely activity, bamboo rafting in Mae Wang provides a closeup introduction to the region's lush forests. To admire the greenery from top down, Flight of the Gibbon in Mae Kampong offers 5 kilometers of zip line through a forest canopy. The village of Mae Klang Luang is big on community-based tourism. It's a place to stop for a freshly brewed cup of coffee while overlooking terraced rice paddies before following a local guide on a 3-kilometer trek to a "hidden" waterfall. MORE: The man who founded a religion based on 'The Big Lebowski'  5. Getting a foot massage at the market In recent years, a slew of modern malls has sprung up in the city. But Chiang Mai's vibrant street markets are still the place to get the classic retail experience. The best choices are the nightly bazaar on Chang Klan Road; Saturday Walking Street on Wualai Road; and Sunday Walking Street down Ratchadamnoen Road inside the old city walls. Sunday Walking Street is the most popular of the bunch, with back-to-back vendors selling trinkets, boutique fashion and handicrafts. With shopping comes sore feet. Fortunately, entrepreneurial massage ladies have that covered -- in the market, rows of plastic chairs set up on the pavement lure shoppers with $5-an-hour foot rubs. You can get your feet rubbed while sipping on a drink from the market and watching crowds amble past. 6. Celebrating local festivals Festivals in Chiang Mai are celebrated with boisterous party fervor and observance of ancient traditions. One of the best holidays is Songkran, the Thai New Year, observed over three official days but often lasting five days each April (dates change every year). Cultural activities are centered around Wat Phra Singh, the city's most visited temple, and the old town. To take part in Chiang Mai's famed full-fledged water fight, you need to pick a strategic station and get ready to get wet -- Tha Pae Gate, anywhere along the moat, next to the Ping River, around Central Kad Suan Kaew and Maya shopping centers, are areas of intense activity and big crowds. Another festival worth planning a trip to Chiang Mai around is Loy Krathong, which coincides with the Lanna festival of Yi Peng. On that November night (again, the dates change annually), tens of thousands of paper lanterns (khom loy) are set off into the sky and thousands more candle-lit floats are released along waterways. The best photo op is at the mass release behind Maejo University. MORE: Pictures of the world's biggest water fight 7. Bundling up for "winter" When the year-end holidays roll around and the mercury dips below 20 C (68 F), the cardigans and beanies come out as city folk head for Chiang Mai to enjoy the "winter." Visitors tend to follow suit, putting away the tank tops and cutoffs and bundling up for the weather as they head for higher ground up in the dois. It really does get chilly. Hot springs suddenly make sense, especially if you stay the night to experience the misty mornings and maximum nighttime chills in the hills. Best day-trip spots for a steamy soak are the Fang Hot Springs at Doi Pha Hom Pok National Park and, closer to Chiang Mai, Pong Duead at Huay Nam Dang National Park. Both have hiking trails and impressive viewpoints. 8. Taking a road trip The roads around Chiang Mai are some of the most scenic in the country. One of the best known is the Mae Hong Son Loop, a 600-kilometer journey that starts from Chiang Mai, and, traveling counterclockwise, passes through Pai, Mae Hong Son and Mae Sariang before returning to the starting point. Driving yourself is the best way to do this multiday excursion -- car and motorbike rental shops are found all over the city -- allowing you to stop to admire the mountainous landscape, visit small villages and swim beneath waterfalls. The shorter, 100-kilometer Samoeng Loop makes for an easy day trip. It passes through Hang Dong and Mae Rim just outside of town. Both of these loops have food stops along the way, but it never hurts to have bags of sai-ua (northern Thai herb sausages) and sticky rice for a spontaneous hillside picnic en route. 9. Relaxing The pace of life in Chiang Mai is refreshingly slower than in Bangkok, giving it a sleepy ambiance that adds to its charm. To indulge in the chilled-out lifestyle, you'll want to kick back in a waterside setting with views of the mountainous surroundings and, of course, good food. About an hour's drive from town, and a longtail boat ride away, you can dine in one of the floating restaurants in Mae Ngat Reservoir in Sri Lanna National Park -- there's nothing to do here but eat, drink, swim and be merry. Houseboats can be rented by the day, and if you can't tear yourself away from the scenic surroundings, it's worth staying overnight. Closer to town, Huay Tung Tao lake has a similar food-nature-and-not-much-else appeal. Located close to the base of Doi Suthep, the lake is dotted with private open air huts on the water's edge where you can order food from nearby restaurants, swim and just whittle away the day enjoying the moment. Very relaxed, very Chiang Mai. GALLERY: Chiang Mai's laid-back street style 10. Seeing the city from the sky For the best view of the city, you can reach for the skies in a basket. Weather permitting, Balloon Adventure Thailand (+66 84 611 4128) offers twice-daily hot air balloon flights year-round. Rides last about 90 minutes. Morning flights tend to be smoother, and you can enjoy views of rice paddies, sprawling valley floors and 360-degree doi-scapes. It's quiet up here, so you can be alone with your thoughts, which will most likely turn to the champagne breakfast awaiting at the end of the ride. MORE: The vegetarian's guide to Thailand travel  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/tech/mobile/wedding-photo-crowdsourcing/index.html	tech	How to crowdsource your wedding photos - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:51:14 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Erin and Doug Halka began planning their wedding, they also looked for ways their guests could share photos of their ceremony and reception. "We thought about using disposable cameras, putting them on all the tables, and letting people take pictures," said Doug Halka. But the thought of collecting cameras and developing film seemed antiquated. Then they came across WedPics, one of several photo-sharing apps for weddings. The app lets guests upload images directly to a private album viewable online by the bride and groom. "Everyone's got their phone in their pocket at all times," said Doug Halka. "They're snapping pictures, they can immediately upload the photos, and now we have all the pictures to share with everyone else." Since the Halkas signed up for WedPics, 423 photos have been uploaded to their page. The pictures ranged from their courtship to the engagement party and all the way to their April wedding in Atlanta. "Now we have pictures just in one place to remember our entire wedding," Erin Halka said. No longer do brides and grooms have to rely on a single official photographer to capture all the key moments from their big day. Increasingly, couples are crowdsourcing their wedding photography through WedPics and similar photo-sharing apps such as Capsule, Wedding Party, Guest Shots and AppilyWed. Most wedding apps are free and are available for iPhones, iPads and Android devices. Guests can also upload images to the apps' websites from a desktop or digital camera. Online wedding albums are kept private unless couples enable social sharing, which allows guests to share photos and videos back out to their existing social networks. "It enables every couple to create a private social network around each of their individual weddings," said Justin Miller, CEO and co-founder of WedPics. "We see people uploading photos and videos from early on in their engagement all the way through the honeymoon." Incorporating technology at weddings has become increasingly popular. According to a recent survey from wedding site TheKnot.com, 19% of couples are using wedding apps to crowdsource their photos and another 41% are considering doing so. Other couples are taking this a step further by inviting guests to share their wedding photos in real-time streams on social media. "A lot of couples are creating their own custom hashtags for their wedding and then encouraging guests to take photos and upload them to Instagram and sometimes Twitter," said Anja Winikka, site director for TheKnot.com. Still, Winikka doesn't see apps or hashtags replacing the professional photographer at weddings. "The one gripe I might hear is that guests kind of get in the way," she said. "If you have a bunch of guests with their phones up, it changes the look of the photo entirely. On the other hand, I don't hear photographers who are worried that this is going to take away from their business." Wedding photos: When snap-happy guests go too far The prospect of a sea of smartphones and point-and-shoot cameras sticking out of the aisles has led some couples to want to unplug. According to TheKnot's survey, 28% of brides have either asked or are planning to ask their guests not to take photos during the ceremony. "Unplugged weddings have become sort of a trend because it's so common for everybody to have their phones out," Winikka said. "The idea there from the couples' perspective is that everyone is going to be really present." Even so, a lot of couples still want as many photos as possible to remember the big day, she added. Since 2012, more than a million people, including couples and their guests, have signed up for WedPics, Miller said. Miller started the company in his basement in Raleigh, North Carolina. He had 12 people working for him full time when his young company was featured in the local newspaper. "The day after (the story) was released, we got a knock on the door with somebody showing an eviction notice," he said. "It turned out to be a blessing in disguise because we landed our first tech angel investor." Since then, WedPics has moved offices and raised even more money. The company recently closed its first round of venture-capital funding, and future prospects look bright. After all, said Miller, "People are always going to be getting married."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/sport/golf/golf-tiger-woods-us-open/index.html	iSport	Tiger Woods out of U.S. Open - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:39:49 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- For the second golf major in a row, Tiger Woods will be missing. The world No. 3 and 14-time major champion announced Wednesday he would miss the U.S. Open as he continued his recovery from back surgery. Woods went under the knife to repair a pinched nerve in March and also missed the first major of the year --The Masters -- in April. The 38-year-old's last major victory came at the 2008 U.S. Open but in a statement on his official website, he said he would not be competing at Pinehurst in North Carolina next month. "Unfortunately, I won't be there because I'm not yet physically able to play competitive golf," Woods said. "I'd like to convey my regrets to the USGA leadership, the volunteers and the fans that I won't be at Pinehurst. "The U.S. Open is very important to me, and I know it's going to be a great week. "Despite missing the first two majors, and several other important tournaments, I remain very optimistic about this year and my future." Injury hampered Woods' early months of the season and he has not competed on the PGA Tour since early March. This will be the sixth major championship he has skipped through injury, his absence at Augusta the first time he'd missed The Masters since making his debut there as an amateur in 1995. Stuck on 14 majors since 2008, he will now have only two more chances this season to close in on Jack Nicklaus' record haul of 18. Despite being absent for several months Woods has only recently relinquished his world No. 1 ranking, to Australia's Adam Scott. Read: Woods to miss Masters Read: Woods aggravates back injury  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/meast/american-suicide-bomber-syria/index.html	world	Islamic militants claim American carried out suicide attack in Syria - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:02:09 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A truck is loaded with munitions, then driven up a hillside in northern Syria. Moments later, there is a massive blast followed by cries of "Allahu Akbar," or God is great in Arabic, as well as the rattling of gunfire. Suicide bombings like this are not new in war-torn Syria. But what could make this one different is the man who radical Islamists say played a part in pulling it off. An American. Abu Farouk al Shamy, a spokesman for the rebel Suqour al-Sham battalion, told CNN the Sunday attack was executed in coordination with the al-Nusra Front, an al Qaeda-linked organization that the U.S. government has blacklisted as a foreign terror organization. One video on YouTube, with the title "the American martyrdom from al-Nusra Front," identifies the suicide bomber as Abu Hurayra Al-Amriki. This video and several other social media posts feature a picture of a bearded man with that name, smiling and holding a cat. The man's full and true identity is not known, and CNN cannot independently verify an American by any name recently died in Syria. But a U.S. law enforcement official concurs the man likely has an American connection. It's not known if he might be a U.S. citizen or resident, though. And the official pointed out any identity can't be confirmed until remains are recovered or examined, something that would be difficult, given the size of the explosion. U.S. concern about Americans fighting in Syria Syrian activists say the video is from Sunday and shows militants' preparations and ultimate attack on Syrian military checkpoints in Jabal Al-Arba'een, near the city of Ariha in Idlib province and believed to be along a key rebel supply route. According to Syrian activists and social media postings, four vehicles laden with explosives were part of the attack. One YouTube video says the American detonated the biggest one, which contained 17 tons of explosives, including artillery shells. It is not clear what exactly this man's involvement was, including whether he was driving an armored truck, a tanker or some other vehicle. Even if he clearly did not act alone, it is the man identified as Abu Hurayra who has gotten a lot of attention on websites and social media venues tied to radical Islamists. This includes a tweet by a man with the handle Abu Suleiman al-Muhajer, whose bio identifies him as belonging to al Qaeda in the Levant, the umbrella organization for the al-Nusra Front. His tweet, which was published on the radical Islamist website Hanein, features the alleged American's picture and the words, "Abu Hurayra Al-Amriki performed a martyrdom operation in Idlib, Jabal Al-Arba'een. May Allah accept him." The name Abu Hurayra, which is popular among Sunni Muslims, offers little clue as to the man's identity. Abu Hurayra was a companion of the Islamic prophet Mohammed and the narrator of Hadith. Regardless, if his U.S. nationality could somehow be confirmed, it wouldn't be a total surprise. U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officials have expressed concerns about Americans joining the fight in Syria, including with groups like the jihadist al-Nusra Front. The worry is that they and other Westerners might pose a threat when they return a home. "There's going to be a diaspora out of Syria," FBI Director James Comey said last week. "And we are determined not to let lines be drawn from Syria today to a future 9/11."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/edward-snowden-interview/index.html	us	Edward Snowden tells NBC: I'm a patriot - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:09:14 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Edward Snowden says he considers himself a patriot, and he wouldn't have gone to such lengths to reveal secret U.S. government surveillance programs if he didn't have to. "I think it's important to remember that people don't set their lives on fire," Snowden said during an interview with NBC "Nightly News" broadcast Wednesday. "They don't walk away from their extraordinarily, extraordinarily comfortable lives....for no reason." Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor who faces espionage charges in the United States for leaking classified documents that detailed U.S. surveillance programs, said he felt like he had no other choice. "The reality is, the situation determined that this needed to be told to the public. The Constitution of the United States had been violated on a massive scale," Snowden told anchor Brian Williams. "Now, had that not happened, had the government not gone too far and overreached, we wouldn't be in a situation where whistleblowers were necessary." Snowden has been living for nearly a year in Russia, where the government has granted him temporary asylum. NBC has released several excerpts of the hourlong interview -- Snowden's first with a U.S. television network -- which is scheduled to air late Wednesday night. Snowden said he'd eventually like to return to the United States. "If I could go anywhere in the world, that place would be home," he told NBC. Asked by Williams whether he considers himself a patriot, Snowden didn't hesitate. "Yes, I do," he said. That comment drew a sharp response from U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, who spoke with the network earlier Wednesday. "Patriots don't go to Russia. They don't seek asylum in Cuba. they don't see asylum in Venezulea. They fight their cause here," Kerry told NBC. "Edward Snowden is a coward. He is a traitor. And he has betrayed his country. And if he wants to come home tomorrow to face the music, he can do so." In another excerpt from the interview, Snowden sought to bolster his credentials, arguing that the U.S. government has tried to downplay his skills and work experience. "I was trained as a spy in sort of the traditional sense of the word -- in that I lived and worked undercover, overseas, pretending to work in a job that I'm not -- and even being assigned a name that was not mine," Snowden said. "Now, the government might deny these things. They might frame it in certain ways, and say, oh, well, you know, he's a low-level analyst. "But what they're trying to do is they're trying to use one position that I've had in a career, here or there, to distract from the totality of my experience, which is that I've worked for the Central Intelligence Agency, undercover, overseas. "I've worked for the National Security Agency, undercover, overseas. And I've worked for the Defense Intelligence Agency as a lecturer at the Joint Counterintelligence Training Academy, where I developed sources and methods for keeping our information and people secure in the most hostile and dangerous environments around the world." Snowden continued: "So when they say I'm a low-level systems administrator, that I don't know what I'm talking about, I'd say it's somewhat misleading." A spokeswoman for the NSA declined to comment Tuesday on the NBC report. Williams traveled to Moscow, where Snowden fled to escape prosecution for leaking classified documents that detailed U.S. surveillance programs. He hasn't been able to leave Russia since U.S. officials charged him with espionage and revoked his passport. What he leaked sparked a national debate about privacy and security. President Barack Obama and military officials remain in support of mass, warrantless surveillance. But civil libertarians, technology companies and others oppose it, noting the lack of transparency. On Russian TV, Snowden asks Putin about Moscow surveillance Edward Snowden speaks at SXSW, calls for public oversight of U.S. spy programs Stories about NSA surveillance, Snowden leaks win Pulitzers for two news groups CNN's Jose Pagliery and Jamie Crawford contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/meast/syria-civil-war-isis-obama/index.html	world	As U.S. ponders Syrian aid plan, vicious al Qaeda group goes on rampage - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:53:49 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- As President Barack Obama vowed Wednesday to help fight the influx of extremists vying for control in Syria's three-year civil war, anti-government fighters reported that jihadists in an eastern village methodically set fire to the homes and farms of those who openly opposed a hardline al Qaeda offshoot. The act of retaliation is the latest in an offensive by the rogue Islamic State of Iraq and Syria to capture rebel-held territory in the oil-rich Deir Ezzour area along the Iraqi border. If ISIS successfully wrests control of the border province, the extremist group notorious for its extreme interpretation of Sharia law is set to feed a comeback campaign across the country by establishing a supply route connecting its bastion in the western Syrian city of Raqqah with its home base in Iraq. Obama outlines foreign policy vision of 'might and right' "ISIS intends to resurge everywhere," Valerie A. Szybala, a Syria analyst at the Institute for the Study of War, tells CNN. "Deir Ezzour is just the first on the list of priorities because it is rich in oil and because of its strategic importance as a transit between Iraq and Syria." Other rebel groups unite To combat the push by ISIS, 12 rebel battalions including al-Nusra Front, a powerful al Qaeda affiliate in Syria, formed the Mujahideen Shura Council in eastern Deir Ezzour, earlier this week. "We found the only solution is for us to unite against ISIS. So all the battalions that were fighting them united financially, militarily and administratively and now work out of the same operation room," Jassem Alkraty, a media activist linked to anti-ISIS insurgent groups, told CNN via Skype from eastern Deir Ezzour. The birth of the alliance followed weeks of brutal clashes between ISIS and al-Nusra Front fighters backed by Islamist insurgents. The fighting forced at least 60,000 civilians to flee, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a London-based monitoring group. This is not the first time strained rebel fighters have diverted resources away from their primary objective of overthrowing President Bashar al-Assad to repel ISIS aggression. Early this year, a coordinated rebel offensive forced ISIS to either withdraw or tactically secede from much of the country's north. "At the direct insistence of foreign backers and the West, rebels fought ISIS expecting a lot more support from their allies. The fact that this support did not come through is part of the reason for their return," Szybala tells CNN. "My hope is we can right those wrongs. A lot of the people fighting on the ground have shown they have the will and the desire to stand up against ISIS, but they need resources." The Obama administration says it's moving closer to finalizing a plan to expand military training and equip moderate Syrian rebels, according to U.S. officials. But with the al Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front leading the fight against ISIS, Syria's allies will face challenges isolating nonextremists from increasingly radicalized opposition factions. 'We are at a critical juncture in our fight against violent extremism and hope that the UK and U.S. can shrug off their fear of supporting us," Brig. Gen. Abdulellah al-Basheer, chief of staff of the Supreme Military Council, said in a letter to The Times this week adding, "A failure to actively support the FSA now will lead to ISIS' successes internationally." Infighting creates humanitarian crisis Violence erupted last month when ISIS launched a surprise attack on the border town of Al-Bukamal, then stormed into the Deir Ezzour countryside. ISIS set off car bombs and executed rebel fighters in a terrifying campaign that left dozens dead, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. "The warfare is never-ending and the towns nearby are facing a serious humanitarian crisis and are very afraid. Rumors spread like wildfire and families are constantly scared their village will be the target of the next massacre," Alkraty tells CNN. ISIS has pushed through much of the east and set up checkpoints along the Euphrates River across from the provincial capital of Deir Ezzour. The city remains under the control of anti-ISIS militias but is vulnerable to attacks from Syrian troop positions to the north. "Residents are very afraid of ISIS and scared of the horrible stories about them," Khalid al-Taha, a spokesperson for the opposition-run local committee in Deir Ezzour, said. "Plus we have near daily shelling from the regime, so life is very, very hard." Rebels claim the fate of Deir Ezzour might soon parallel the ISIS-controlled city of Raqqah, where human rights groups report public executions, the forced disappearance and torture of opponents and even mock crucifixions, but Szybala says the ultraextremists do not have the resources to rule another population center. Al Qaeda central recognizes and supports al Nusra Front's fight against the government in Syria, but in an unprecedented move earlier this year, the group's general command disowned ISIS and blamed it for intrarebel fighting that has killed more than 3,300 people, a number reported by SOHR in April. "We started this revolution for freedom," al-Taha says, "so we cannot accept any another organization coming and imposing its rules on us." Islamic militants claim American carried out suicide attack  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/us/shinseki-profile/index.html	us	Tested in Vietnam, VA's Shinseki finds himself in firestorm - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 06:20:05 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Those who know Eric Shinseki chuckled when their laconic friend began his Army retirement speech in 2003 with this: "'My name is Shinseki, and I am a soldier." It was pure Shinseki, longtime friend Rollie Stichweh thought. Shinseki, ending his Army career that day as chief of staff, had always been a man of few words. "Ric is quiet, low-key," said Stichweh, who graduated from West Point with Shinseki in 1965. "He's never been an extrovert. He hates being the center of attention." More than a decade later, Shinseki is very much the center of attention as calls for his firing as Veterans Affairs secretary amplify by the day. This week, President Barack Obama summoned Shinseki, 71, to the White House as allegations mounted that some VA health care facilities covered up long patient wait times for veterans. CNN reported exclusively last month that, according to sources, at least 40 American veterans died while waiting to be seen at the Phoenix VA. CNN also obtained an e-mail that an employee at a Wyoming clinic of the VA wrote saying that employees were instructed to "game the system" to make the clinic appear more efficient. As of Thursday, more than two dozen facilities across the nation were reportedly under investigation. Doctor says Phoenix VA ignored mandate The VA has weathered other scandals since its creation in 1930. But veterans say this one puts the department at a crossroads. Will the revelations lead to substantial housecleaning at the sprawling bureaucracy charged with caring for injured warriors, many part of a generation that has been battered by more than 12 years of nonstop war? Some lawmakers have called for Shinseki to be fired. Highly respected veterans groups, such as the American Legion, have demanded answers and called for his resignation. The focus on Shinseki has also given way to a larger discussion about the VA system overall. "I have not called for Gen. Shinseki to resign, although I have to admit I am getting a little closer," House Speaker John Boehner said Thursday. "But here is the point: This isn't about one person. This isn't about the secretary. It is about the entire system underneath him." Should Shinseki go? Vets, lawmakers split along party lines 'Anguished'   But as every military member knows, the buck stops at the top. Obama nominated Shinseki in 2008, saying that the decorated Vietnam War veteran and former Army chief of staff was a man who "always stood on principle." The Senate confirmed Shinseki in 2009. At the confirmation hearing, lawmakers had mostly praise for Shinseki, who was known in Washington circles for his valor and for his long commitment to service in the Army. Shinseki promised then he would come up with a "concise strategy for pursuing a transformed Department of Veterans Affairs," vowing to make the VA a "people-centric, results-driven, forward-looking" institution. Skip to Wednesday after Obama's meeting with the secretary. The President called a news conference, which generated much buzz that he was about to dismiss Shinseki. Instead, Obama promised accountability and stressed that no decision would be made until an inspector general's investigation on the scandal was complete. "We are going to fix whatever is wrong," the President said. Shinseki has given a few brief interviews since the scandal broke, mostly promising to find out whether the allegations are true. He hasn't spoken to CNN despite the network's numerous requests. In testimony last week, Shinseki told the Senate it was too soon to cast blame. The general also displayed a rare moment of emotion. "Any allegation, any adverse incident like this makes me mad as hell," he said. On Thursday, Shinseki announced an independent review and nationwide audit and told veterans the department was "redoubling its efforts, with integrity and compassion, to earn your trust." Stichweh told CNN that he and Shinseki have talked about how the controversy has affected him, but Stichweh felt it would be a betrayal of Shinseki's trust -- and the privacy the general cherishes -- to share any of that with CNN. "He is anguished over this, I can tell you that. He feels it," said Stichweh, a retired business consultant who lives in Connecticut. "There is nothing he cares about more than veterans." Words fail him Words are not enough for veterans groups. There must be systemic reform at the VA that goes beyond a single person, they said. But it has to be coordinated by one person, and some doubt that it should be Shinseki. He just isn't candid enough, said Paul Rieckhoff, an Iraq war veteran and the executive director of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. The organization that serves 2.8 million Iraq and Afghanistan veterans has been trying for years to get Shinseki to talk frankly with them about a variety of veterans' needs, Rieckhoff said. "We've tried nonstop to get him to talk to us, but it appears he's not interested in hearing us, and that's too bad because we've wanted the secretary to succeed," he said. The veterans' group has not made a statement about whether Shinseki should lose his job. "But there's no doubt he's let the relationship with veterans fall apart over the years," Rieckhoff said, pointing to the VA's disability backlog problem that CNN and other outlets have covered in recent years. This week, The Washington Post reported that almost half of Afghanistan and Iraq veterans are filing for disability benefits when they leave the military. The VA is saddled, the Post reported, with a backlog of 300,000 cases, some of which are taking months to process, others more than a year. "Shinseki appears to be overwhelmed. We need a younger person in that role, an Iraq or Afghanistan veteran," said Rieckhoff, 39. "I know about Shinseki's military career and it is admirable. He had a wonderful military career, but that's the past. We are living too much in the past." The American Legion's national commander, Dan Dellinger, called for Shinseki's resignation as well as those of Undersecretary of Health Robert Petzel and Undersecretary of Benefits Allison Hickey. The American Legion hasn't called for the resignation of a public official in 30 years, he said, but VA leaders were failing badly to respond to questions. "Senior VA leaders have isolated themselves from the media and, more importantly, from answering to their shareholders, America's veterans," Dellinger wrote in an online note to members. He's received a "massive amount" of e-mail from American Legion members describing their own long waits to be seen at the VA, he told CNN. Dellinger also said he felt Shinseki's testimony was "lackluster." "I thought he was ill-prepared or advised not to answer questions," the 64-year-old Army veteran said. "I felt sorry for the man." Petzel resigned last week. But that in itself caused a stir.  The VA said last year that Petzel was expected to retire in 2014 anyway. The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America blasted Petzel's exit in a statement: "We don't need the VA to find a scapegoat; we need an actual plan to restore a culture of accountability throughout the VA." From the jungle to the capital There are two moments in Shinseki's public life that have come to define him. One took place in the jungle of Vietnam. Another played out in the battlefield of Washington, just before the Iraq War. Shinseki was born in Hawaii to Japanese-American parents less than a year after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Despite hostility toward Japanese-Americans, three of Shinseki's uncles enlisted in the Army and served in Europe in the all-Japanese-American 100th Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, according to Encyclopaedia Britannica. Stichweh recalls meeting Shinseki and wanting immediately to ask why Shinseki would want to serve in the military, given the time when Shinseki was born and raised, his family's background and the fact that some Americans were still, at that time, not particularly warm to people of Japanese descent. "I asked 'Gee, why would you want to be an officer?' And he told me about his family and what that history meant to him," Stichweh said. A Boy Scout, Shinseki was raised to understand the importance of order and discipline. He also was an early achiever. He was the student body president at Kauai High School, according to U.S. News & World Report. He married his high school sweetheart, Patricia. They have two children. After graduating from the U.S. Military Academy in 1965, Shinseki and Stichweh served in Vietnam. Stichweh left the service after fulfilling his mandated term because he disagreed with President Lyndon B. Johnson's war strategy. Shinseki did two combat tours. In 1970, during a fierce gunbattle, he stepped on a landmine and blew off half of his right foot. Even after that harrowing experience, he lobbied to remain in the Army. "Ric persuaded the powers that be to let him stay," Stichweh said. "He nearly died, but he wanted to keep serving." Shinseki was awarded a Purple Heart and other honors for his valor. He returned to active duty in 1971. Read Shinseki's official VA bio The general and Iraq While working his way up the Army career ladder, Shinseki got a master's degree in English at Duke University and went back to West Point to teach. He took important posts at the Pentagon. In 1991, he was promoted to brigadier general, became the commanding general of the 1st Cavalry Division in 1994, and then was named commander in chief of U.S. Army forces in Europe. Shinseki led NATO land forces in central Europe and commanded a NATO peacekeeping mission in Bosnia-Herzegovina after that conflict. In the summer of 1999, under President Bill Clinton, Shinseki became Army chief of staff. The lessons he learned in Bosnia informed the second most-significant -- or at least publicly talked about -- chapter in Shinseki's career. In 2003, a month before the United States invaded Iraq, he testified before Congress it would take "something on the order of several hundred thousand soldiers" to secure the country. That was reportedly about double what the George W. Bush administration proffered would be necessary. Days after Shinseki's testimony, then-Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld discounted that figure, and his deputy, Paul Wolfowitz, told lawmakers that Shinseki's estimation was "wildly off the mark." Nicolaus Mills, an American history professor at Sarah Lawrence College, said that Shinseki was merely using a formula developed by the nonpartisan think tank RAND Corp. The formula was applied during an international peacekeeping mission in Bosnia during the 1990s, Mills said, saying it required one soldier for every 50 civilians to keep the peace after a war. "He was simply doing the math for Iraq, and we know he turned out to be right," the professor said. March 2003 saw a ground invasion force of 145,000 troops, Mills wrote on CNN in March 2013, 10 years after the start of the war. A month after the invasion, "mobs began looting government buildings and hospitals," and "there were not enough American soldiers to stop them," Mills wrote. A "surge" of troops had to be sent to Iraq during the war to tamp down on insurgents who were attacking U.S. troops and allies. In January 2007, Bush addressed the nation saying, "It is clear that we need to change our strategy in Iraq." The United States completed its withdrawal of military personnel in 2011. When Shinseki retired in June 2003, he was the highest-ranking Asian-American service member. Former White House adviser and senior CNN political analyst David Gergen said this week that the idea of Shinseki as a person who spoke truth to power has persisted in Washington for years. Gergen said Shinseki may have gotten the VA post in part because the Obama administration wanted to show he, rather than others, was right about Iraq. Gergen also stressed that it was his recollection that soldiers revered Shinseki, mostly for his valor in Vietnam. "But I'm not sure there was anything particularly distinguishing about him (to) lead a bureaucracy" the size of the VA," Gergen said. In 2006, Newsweek asked Shinseki, then in retirement in Hawaii, how he felt about the criticism that he should have pushed harder for more troops at the launch of the Iraq War. "Probably that's fair," he told the magazine. "Not my style."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/health/white-house-concussion-summit/index.html	health	White House to talk concussion prevention at summit - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 08:12:15 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Amid growing concern about brain injuries that cause about 250,000 emergency room visits by young athletes annually, the White House will convene the Healthy Kids and Safe Sports Concussion Summit on Thursday. More than 200 participants, including the National Football League, professional athletes and the Pentagon, will discuss what can be done to help educate parents and athletes on how to better prevent concussions and protect athletes' brains, according to a White House statement. White House press secretary Jay Carney said the summit came from conversations he and President Barack Obama had regarding the concerns parents had about concussions. "As parents tend to do, we talk about our kids, and we talk a lot about sports," Carney said. The White House will announce initiatives on Thursday, including an effort to help start a national concussion database through the University of California, Los Angeles, as well as a $30 million partnership between the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the Department of Defense to fund the most comprehensive clinical study of concussions among college athletes, the statement said. The NFL will commit $25 million to work with the National Athletic Trainers Association to get more athletic trainers in high schools. Currently, about half of all high schools have no athletic trainers on their sidelines. Dr. David Dodick of the Mayo Clinic told CNN the summit will focus unprecedented attention on the issue of concussions and youth athletes. "It really highlights this as a public health crisis, and elevates this to a national health priority," he said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/us/nba-clippers-sterling/index.html	us	Source: Clippers draw as many as five bidders - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 08:54:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- There are as many as five bidders to buy the Los Angeles Clippers, with offers up to $2 billion, a source with knowledge of the situation told CNN on Wednesday night. The team is owned by the Sterling family trust, with Donald and Shelly Sterling each owning 50% of the team. Donald Sterling was banned by the NBA earlier this month and fined $2.5 million for racist remarks, and the league began proceedings to terminate the Sterlings' ownership rights. The NBA has scheduled a special June 3 meeting of the Board of Governors for a vote on the matter. The league said Wednesday it had received responses from Sterlings to the NBA's charge that Donald Sterling had violated the NBA constitution through comments made in an audio recording posted online and in an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper. if 75% of the 30 NBA ownership groups vote to terminate the Sterlings' franchise rights, the league will hire an investment banker to sell the team. In his response, Donald Sterling accused the NBA of violating his constitutional rights in trying to end his ownership of the franchise based on what he says was an illegally recorded conversation during a lovers' quarrel, according to a document provided by Donald Sterling's attorney. The document, Sterling's 26-page response to charges of violating the league's bylaws, adhered to the NBA's Tuesday deadline for the billionaire businessman's reply. Sterling has been prejudged and won't get a fair hearing, the document says, citing comments from 10 other teams. About one month ago, Silver banned Sterling from NBA facilities and functions and ordered him to pay a record fine after racist remarks by the Clippers' owner to former companion V. Stiviano surfaced online. A source close to the situation said roughly two weeks ago that Donald Sterling -- who repeatedly denied he's a racist in a CNN interview -- wouldn't pay the fine, would reject the ban and might sue the NBA. The document says Sterling faces a never-before-issued and unjust punishment. "In reality, Mr. Sterling is being banned for life, fined $2.5 million, and stripped of his ownership rights for a purely private conversation with his lover that he did not know was being recorded and that he never intended to see the light of day," the document says. Other NBA figures have made bigoted or racially insensitive remarks and weren't punished as harshly, Sterling argues. His remarks were made in the heat of an argument, and while they were not justified, they were not meant to harm the NBA, the response says. And while Sterling's remarks were viewed as racist, he says in his response that he was "instrumental in fostering the diverse body of players, coaches, general managers, employees and fans on which the NBA prides itself." The document also says Sterling was active in the African-American community and that there was only one court case -- which he won -- of discrimination brought against him as owner of the Clippers in more than 30 years. Sterling asks that the NBA's charges be denied and that his ownership rights not be terminated.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/27/world/europe/gerry-adams-fast-facts/index.html	world	Gerry Adams Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/10/27	Sunday Oct 27 01:28:32 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at the life of Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, the leading republican political party in Northern Ireland. Personal:  Birth date: October 6, 1948 Birth place: Belfast, Northern Ireland Birth name: Gerard Adams Father: Gerry Adams, laborer and republican activist Mother: Annie (Hannaway) Adams, mill worker Marriage: Colette (McArdle) Adams (1971-present) Children: Gearid (son) Religion: Catholic Other Facts:  Sinn Fein means "we ourselves." Has written more than 10 books. Denies being a member of the Irish Republican Army. Timeline:  Early 1960s - Joins Sinn Fein, which supports the reunion of British-ruled Northern Ireland with the rest of Ireland. 1972 - Suspected of being an Irish Republican Army leader, Adams is interned without trial. July 1972 - Is released to participate in secret peace talks with the British government. 1973-1977 - After peace talks fail, Adams is imprisoned again. 1978 - Elected vice president of Sinn Fein. 1983 - Elected president of Sinn Fein. 1983-1992 - Is the elected representative for West Belfast in the British House of Commons. Following Sinn Fein policy, Adams never takes his seat in order to avoid taking the obligatory oath of loyalty to the Queen of England. 1984 - Is shot and seriously wounded during an assassination attempt. 1988 - Begins talks with John Hume, the leader of Northern Ireland's Social Democratic and Labour Party. 1993 - Adams and Hume issue a statement suggesting ways to peacefully settle the conflict in Northern Ireland. 1994 - Is granted his first U.S. visa. 1997 - Meets with British Prime Minister Tony Blair. April 1998 - The Good Friday Agreement, also known as the Belfast Agreement, is signed, establishing a democratically elected assembly in Northern Ireland. The assembly is suspended several times, with the last suspension ending in 2007.  June 1998 - Is elected to the new Northern Ireland Assembly. 2011 - Is elected to the Dil, Ireland's parliament. April 30-May 4, 2014 - Adams is held for questioning in connection with the 1972 Irish Republican Army abduction and slaying of Jean McConville, a mother of 10.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/living/molly-schuyler-eating-champ/index.html	living	Rising competitive eating star Molly Schuyler devours 72-ounce steak - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 10:23:25 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- There are days Molly Schuyler eats little or nothing at all. Most days she eats leftovers off the plates of her four children and a salad or two. And then there are days when she eats a 72-ounce steak, shrimp cocktail, salad, a baked potato and a roll in less than five minutes. And then for "dessert," she does it once more, in nine minutes. The self-described stay-at-home mom/eater said Tuesday she takes on food challenges and competitions for the fun of it -- and for the free grub. She's not in it for the money or fame, so if it ever stops being fun, she'll push away from the table. Competitive eating fans hope that's not any time soon because Schuyler is fast becoming a star in the world of quick bites and bottomless stomachs. Emphasis on the word "fast." Schuyler has eaten: nine pounds of fried mushrooms in eight minutes, nearly 13 slices of pizza in 10 minutes (6.9 pounds), eight beef patties in 1 minute, 46 seconds, and forty 2.9-ounce bratwursts in eight minutes. And if you haven't gotten a sore stomach by now, there's also the 363 chicken wings in 30 minutes to win the Wing Bowl (and $22,000 in prize money). Pretty impressive for someone who weighs 120 pounds. 'It was delicious' The legend of Molly Schuyler grew again this week when she went to Amarillo, Texas, and demolished Joey Chestnut's record time for the 72-ounce steak challenge at The Big Texan Steak Ranch. After methodically setting up the plates as she wanted them, Schuyler tore into the medium rare steak, grabbing the slab with her two hands and tearing into the beef. "We've never seen anything like it. It was gone, it was just gone," Big Texan owner Bobby Lee said. "She eats like a high-powered lawnmower." In an interview with the Amarillo newspaper he went further: "If there's a zombie apocalypse, I want to stay away from this girl." Schuyler said she locks her teeth into the steak, bites once and swallows. There were a couple close calls -- there are always a couple of close calls -- but nothing near choking. And though it's hard to believe, she actually enjoyed the steak. "It was delicious," she said. Really? You tasted it? "It was amazing." She even talked about coming back later to try to eat three steak meals in one sitting, something that's never been done. Lee said 140,000 people have taken the challenge since 1960, and only 10,000 have finished it in under one hour. And no one near as fast as Schuyler. The only thing that has eaten it faster was a lioness, and she just ate the steak. Schuyler's time for the first meal eclipsed the clocking Chestnut, a seven-time champion of the Nathan's Famous Hot Dog Eating contest, posted in 2008. Some people anxiously awaited his reaction, to see if he would congratulate Schuyler or talk of reclaiming his record. Such talk irritates Schulyler, who said she considers Chestnut a friend. "He's a frickin phenomenal eater," she said. "If he beats me, that's great." The two are in different eating organizations, meaning you won't see Schuyler at the hot dog contest. In 2013, Schuyler signed with All Pro Eating, which sanctions about 50 events around the world. All Pro Eating Chairman Todd Greenwald said his competitors eat under "picnic style rules," where there is no dunking or tearing food apart is allowed. This differs from Major League Eating rules, he said. And he said his eaters don't have to sign contracts. It started with a burger challenge Schuyler, 34, said she started challenging her stomach only about a year and half ago. It started with a friend telling her there was no way she could eat a burger called the "Stellanator" at a restaurant in her hometown of Bellevue, Nebraska, near Omaha. The burger has six patties, six eggs, 12 pieces of bacon, six pieces of cheese and condiments that include jalapenos and peanut butter. "I'm always about proving someone wrong," she said. And she did. In just 15 minutes. And before you could burp, people started calling and inviting her to try their challenges. And before she knew it, she was at Wing Bowl in Philadelphia, the new kid among the competitors, riding a float through the cacophony of 20,000 fans. "There are so many people cheering for you and for other people, you have to be in the middle of it to appreciate it," she said. But it didn't faze her. She pounded down 186 wings in the opening 14-minute round, 148 in the second round, and in the two-minute final, ate 29 for a total of 363, an event record. At home When asked how she burns off all those calories, Schuyler said she is a mother of four children, ages 10, 7, 6 and 5, so taking care of them keeps her moving. Her children are not big eaters, so she finishes off their plates -- a lot of leftover vegetables, she said. She also eats a lot of salads. "I might eat more plates of food, but they're salads (with no dressing) so it's not a lot of calories," she said. "We (competitive eaters) don't eat like crazy all the time. That would just be impossible." Schuyler also loves buffets and told the story of getting kicked out of a Chinese restaurant. "I ate nine plates of food," she said. "They threw the check at me. I didn't leave a tip." But there are some days, when she's running the little ones to Cub Scouts and dance recitals that she might even -- gasp -- skip meals or not eat. Not everyone is supportive Schuyler said she still enjoys the challenge of eating fast and furious, but the detractors abound. "Every comment is rude," she said. "People chastise and make us look like we are the worst people in the world if we eat a lot of food." If they take the joy out of it, she'll just quit, Schuyler said. Her children are most important, she said, adding that she no longer takes them to her food events and won't encourage them to follow in her fork steps. She turns down events because of her children's activities and the fact that her husband's job in the Air Force takes him away from home often. "I just missed a contest I really wanted to go to because of a dance recital," she said. "I will not ever give up my kids' stuff to go do a contest." Schuyler only does about one or two contests a month. She won't say where the next one is. "I like to keep off the radar," she said. "I like to have a private life."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/09/us/aaron-hernandez-fast-facts/index.html	us	Aaron Hernandez Fast Facts - CNN.com	2014/03/09	Sunday Mar 9 09:37:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Here is a look at the life of Aaron Hernandez, former New England Patriots tight end charged with the murder of semi-pro football player Odin Lloyd. Personal:  Birth date: November 6, 1989 Birth place: Bristol, Connecticut Birth name: Aaron Michael Hernandez Father: Dennis Hernandez, a high school custodian Mother: Terri (Valentine) Hernandez, a school secretary Children: with Shayanna Jenkins: Avielle Janelle Hernandez, November 6, 2012 Education: Attended University of Florida, 2007-2009 Other Facts:  Odin Lloyd, 27, played semi-pro football for the Boston Bandits and dated the sister of Shayanna Jenkins, Hernandez's fiance. Hernandez was very close to his father, Dennis, who died in 2006 due to an infection during surgery for a hernia. Timeline:  2009 - Aaron Hernandez becomes the first Florida Gator to win the John Mackey Award, awarded every year to the top collegiate tight end. January 2010 - Announces his decision to skip his senior year at Florida and turn pro. April 24, 2010 - Hernandez is picked in the fourth round of the NFL draft by the New England Patriots. April 27, 2010 - Due to allegations of multiple failed drug tests, Hernandez makes a statement admitting one failed drug test while playing for Florida. August 27, 2012 - Signs a five-year contract extension with the New England Patriots, worth up to $40 million. June 17, 2013 - Prosecutors say Odin Lloyd is seen at around 2:30 a.m. leaving with Hernandez and Hernandez's friends, Carlos Ortiz and Ernest Wallace, in a rented silver Nissan Altima. June 17, 2013 - A jogger finds a body riddled with gun shot wounds at an industrial park in North Attleboro, Massachusetts. June 18, 2013 - Police search Hernandez's home in connection to the body found in the industrial park a mile away, which is later identified as Odin Lloyd. June 22, 2013 - Police search his home for the second time. June 26, 2013 - Aaron Hernandez is arrested and charged with first -degree murder for Lloyd's death. He is also charged on five weapons-related charges. He pleads not guilty and is held without bail. Hernandez is released by the New England Patriots less than two hours after his arrest. August 1, 2013 - Tanya Cummings-Singleton, Hernandez's cousin, is jailed for not testifying before the grand jury. September 19, 2013 - Ernest Wallace pleads not guilty to the charge of an accessory after the fact of a slaying. September 27, 2013 - Carlos Ortiz, a Hernandez associate, is indicted on a single count of accessory to murder after the fact, in connection with the killing of Odin Lloyd. He later pleads not guilty. October 16, 2013 - Shayanna Jenkins, Hernandez's fiancee, pleads not guilty to perjury charges. Prosecutors allege that she lied to a grand jury and disposed evidence. November 27, 2013 - Hernandez's attorney files an answer to a complaint in federal court in Miami filed by Alexander Bradley, stating that Hernandez is invoking his Fifth Amendment rights. Bradley claims Hernandez shot him in the face after an argument in a Miami strip club. December 16, 2013 - Odin Lloyd's family files a wrongful death lawsuit against Aaron Hernandez. January 16, 2014 - Unsealed court documents reveal that prosecutors suggested that Hernandez may have pulled the trigger in an unsolved Boston double homicide in July 2012. Victims Daniel Abreu and Safiro Furtado were killed when shots were fired into their 2003 BMW. Two others in the car survived. January 30, 2014 - The Bristol County District Attorney's Office alleges Hernandez used "coded messages" in jailhouse calls to discuss allegations that he killed Odin Lloyd. Prosecutors request recordings of jailhouse calls and records of Hernandez's visitors since his arrest in June 2013. February 7, 2014 - The judge denies the prosecution's request for Hernandez's jailhouse phone calls. February 25, 2014 - According to the Bristol County Sheriff's Department, Hernandez is involved in an "altercation with another inmate." February 26, 2014 - The families of Daniel Abreu and Safiro Furtado, the two men gunned down in Boston in 2012, file a wrongful death lawsuit against Hernandez; each family is seeking six million dollars. April 11, 2014 - The two friends who were seen in the car with Hernandez on June 17, 2013, Carlos Ortiz and Ernest Wallace, are indicted and charged with Odin Lloyd's murder. May 1, 2014 - Hernandez is indicted on charges of assault and battery and threats to do bodily harm, in connection to the February 25 jailhouse altercation. May 15, 2014 - He is indicted for the July 2012 murders of Abreu and Furtado and charged with three counts of armed assault with attempt to murder.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/asia/sewol-yoo-manhunt/index.html	world	Where is South Korea's most wanted man? - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 10:52:43 EDT 2014	Seoul, South Korea (CNN) -- South Korea's most wanted man, who is believed to have ties to the company that operated the ill-fated Sewol ferry, has eluded arrest for weeks, leaving authorities red-faced for not finding the high-profile billionaire. The Sewol ferry sank on April 16, killing 288 people on board. Through an investment vehicle and subsidiary, Yoo Byung Eun, 73, and his two sons are believed to have controlled the shipping company that operated the ferry, according to the semi-official Yonhap news agency. In late April, Yoo's representatives sent a statement denying that he had any direct or indirect connection to Chonghaejin Marine Company. Yoo is wanted for questioning in connection with an investigation into alleged funds embezzlement, tax evasion and other irregularities that prosecutors say could have contributed to the sinking. A South Korean court has issued a warrant for Yoo's arrest. Investigators are looking into why the ferry capsized, including factors such as imbalance of weight on the ship, overloaded and improperly secured cargo, and actions by the company and crew.  What went wrong on Sewol The Incheon District prosecutor's office said on Tuesday: "The ones who are most directly responsible for the accident are officials with Cheonghaejin ... Our prosecutor's office is currently investigating Yoo Byung Eun, who is standing at the very top of it." Yoo has defied summons to report to the prosecutor's office, and gone into hiding. The prosecutor's office has come under public criticism for waiting for Yoo to appear of his own volition, which some say gave him plenty of time to flee. Searching for Yoo Yoo is known as the "millionaire without a face" because of his reluctance to appear in public. The whereabouts of his four sons are also unknown. Four members of the religious group his father-in-law founded have been arrested, accused of aiding Yoo. South Korea's Justice Department said it requested its French counterparts to make the "provisional arrest" of his daughter. The younger Yoo has been detained by French authorities in connection with the Sewol investigation, said Magalie Josse, Paris court spokeswoman. French authorities will determine whether to extradite the younger Yoo, according to the South Korea's Ministry of Justice. South Korean President Park Geun-hye lashed out against the Yoo family this week. "The Yoo Byung Eun family, who is the fundamental cause of this tragedy, is mocking the law and causing public rage instead of coming in front of the people to apologize and tell the truth," she said on Tuesday. "Such an act by Yoo's family is a challenge to our society and an act of crime that cannot be protected." This week, the reward for information for the capture of Yoo was raised to nearly $500,000 and about $100,000 for his eldest son. South Korean media showed pictures of possible disguises for Yoo and his appearance throughout the years. Yoo's religious group Yoo is a religious figure of Gu Won Pa (which translates to "salvation group"), also known as the Evangelical Baptist Church. Some members of the group have protested in front of the prosecutor's office in what they consider religious persecution. Last week, nearly a hundred members of the religious group stood outside its mountain compound as investigators arrived to search for Yoo. The supporters said the church had nothing to do with the allegations and likened the case to religious persecution, according to Yonhap Investigators have also started looking into the practices of the group. "We are also in cooperation with nationwide police forces closely investigating buildings and lands related to Gu Won Pa," said an official from the prosecutor's office. "We are also not ruling out that he (Yoo) was smuggled out of the country and hence, we are collecting intelligence concentrated on ports." Yoo's history Yoo has had brushes with the law. He was convicted on fraud charges in the 1990s and spent four years in prison, according to South Korean media reports. In 1987, he was under investigation after more than 30 people from a religious group were found dead, bound and gagged in a factory outside of Seoul. Officials investigated the incident as a mass murder-suicide, and also looked into whether Yoo had any connection to the event, but determined he wasn't involved. Yoo is also known to have an artistic alter ego -- Ahae -- a photographer who has won international acclaim. His website appears to show Yoo taking pictures, but his face is not visible. According the website bio, Ahae was born in 1941 in Japan, where his family was during Japanese colonial rule of Korea. On April 25, a lengthy statement from his representative was released sending condolences to the victims of the Sewol accident and condemning what it called an "undeserved attack against AHAE, his character and his credentials as an artist." Meanwhile, off the southwestern coast of Korea, search operations continue around the sunken ferry as 16 people remain missing. Journalist Francesca Humi contributed to this report from Paris.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/asia/japan-tanker-explosion/index.html	world	Explosion sparks fire on oil tanker off Japan coast - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 11:52:29 EDT 2014	Tokyo (CNN) -- Japanese coast guard ships and aircraft are battling a fire set off by an explosion on an oil tanker off the country's southern coast. The blast took place Thursday morning on the tanker Shoko Maru near the port of Himeji in western Japan, said Kenji Nakajima, a liaison officer at the 5th Regional Coast Guard. Rescuers have saved eight of the nine crew members on the ship, Nakajima said, and three of them were rushed to a hospital in ambulances after arriving in the port, which is about 75 kilometers (45 miles) west of Osaka. The ninth crew member is still missing. It wasn't immediately clear from authorities whether the tanker was loaded with oil, which could pose an environmental risk. NHK, Japan's national broadcaster, reported that the ship wasn't loaded. The coast guard said it was still trying to determine the contents of the tanker and what caused the explosion. A plume of black smoke was seen rising from the vessel, NHK reported. There is no immediate danger to other ships, as the tanker was located outside of the port facility, Nakajima said, adding that an exclusion zone was being set up around the burning vessel. CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki reported from Tokyo, and Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/europe/poland-quarter-century-of-change/index.html	world	A quarter of a century of change: How Poland and its pope made it look easy - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 11:47:46 EDT 2014	Editor's note: 25 years since Poland's first partly free elections, CNN's On the Road series visits the country looking at how it has been transformed since the fall of communism while taking a deeper look at its customs and culture. Watch reports on CNN TV from June 2. (CNN) -- "Awesome!" exclaimed Sister Benedykta Mazur, as she described Wadowice's new museum dedicated to its revered hometown boy, Pope John Paul II. His enthusiasm for his faith and his country radiates through this rural town in southern Poland. And in the spring sunshine Sister Benedykta reminds me of how and why Poland has defied historical odds and emerged as a stable, dynamic country in the heart of Europe. Sister Benedykta tells me Pope John Paul II made patriotism part and parcel of the fourth commandment, honor and love thy parents. She says the pope encouraged Polish people to love their country and believe in its potential. There is much debate both inside and outside Poland on whether the pope's influence was ever political or revolutionary. But listening to Sister Benedykta, the debate softens and blurs and what emerges is pure gratitude. Many people here say they are thankful history bestowed them a Polish pope that embodied their aspirations. A quarter century ago, the Solidarity movement led a bold, brave path to independence and yet it was a movement so nuanced and profound, it's perhaps better appreciated with hindsight. Or maybe on a stroll through the main square in Wadowice. The square has been rebuilt, the church where the pope worshipped has been restored and renewed. A papal museum dedicated to the life of Pope John Paul II sits prominently on the square, packed with visitors from all over the world. We speak with Polish families on a Sunday stroll, Irish tourists on a pilgrimage to the former pope's homeland and tourists from the Philippines eager to learn more about the pope's early life. All comment on Poland's independence and prosperity and how Pope John Paul II seems still to be the guardian of their freedom. With one of the fastest growing economies in Europe, a stable democracy and a dynamic workforce, Poland has indeed made revolution look easy, even inevitable. But the chaotic and violent revolutions around the world in recent years are a reminder of how difficult political change can be and why Poland's has been so extraordinary. To be sure, Poland has been guided by the steady hand of European Union and more importantly, its economic aid. But it's the voices of Solidarity leaders 25 years ago that still resonate. Pope John Paul II was not always vocal or strident about the situation in Poland or how it should change, but his return to his homeland in 1979 as pope seemed to summon the confidence Polish people always knew they had. Even those not yet born in 1979 tell us his visit was a catalyst giving Poland the courage and faith to push ahead with its protest and the peoples' demand for freedom and independence. All these details have been written and rewritten in modern history countless times, but it is on our visit to Poland that we really saw their significance. In Wadowice's sunny square, in Gdansk's modern football stadium, in Warsaw's renewed skyline, we have found an emboldened country humbled by its historical leaders and thankful for the future they've inspired. What do you like the most about Poland? Read more: Unearthed! But is it a vampire? Read more about CNN's sponsorship policy 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/showbiz/brad-pitt-attacked/index.html	entertainment	Brad Pitt attacked at Hollywood premiere of 'Maleficent' - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 12:03:52 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Actor Brad Pitt was struck in the face by a man at a Hollywood premiere Wednesday, Los Angeles police said. Pitt was at the premiere of the movie "Maleficent," starring his partner Angelina Jolie, when a man hopped a barrier and attacked the actor. Officers arrested the suspect, who could be charged with misdemeanor battery, police said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/malaysia-missing-plane/index.html	world	Search area for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 'can now be discounted' - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 01:07:04 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The Bluefin-21 drone has completed its search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 off the western coast of Australia, and the area where the pings were heard "can now be discounted as the final resting place of MH370," the Joint Agency Coordination Centre said Thursday. Since joining the search, the Bluefin-21 has scoured over 850 square kilometers of the ocean floor looking for signs of the missing aircraft. The Boeing 777 jetliners disappeared on March 8 with 239 people on board. CNN's David Molko contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/travel/bathurst-south-africa/index.html	travel	5 reasons Bathurst may be South Africa's most eccentric town - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 01:28:26 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's a village not a town. So say residents of Bathurst, a magnet for the creative and curious located in the Eastern Cape of South Africa, approximately 12 kilometers from Port Alfred. Residents are proud of the eccentricity of their town. Or village. "You've got to have certain things to be a town, like a bank and full-time doctor, and we don't have any of that," says one longtime resident who gives her name only as Mrs. Lens. What Bathurst does have is a history dating to the early 1820s, a long and entertaining main street and a pub with delicious food that's also a motel. The best time to visit is Sunday morning, for the weekly farmers market. But there are other attractions -- starting with these. MORE: How the cappuccino conquered South Africa 1. World's largest pineapple There's no missing the town's 17-meter-tall pineapple. It's not as random as it seems. The Big Pineapple represents the region's pineapple industry -- the settlers who arrived in the 1820s struggled to grow crops until the first pineapple was planted in 1865. Inside today's three-story fiberglass pineapple there's a museum devoted to the fruit. From the top there are great views of the surrounding pineapple fields and countryside. Tractor farm tours and pineapple tastings are also available. Big Pineapple, just off R67, Bathurst; + 27 46 625 0515; 9 a.m.-5 p.m. daily 2. South Africa's oldest pub  A pub is the focal point of Bathurst's history. Built in 1832 by British settler Thomas Hartley, it was known as Widow Hartley's Inn after his death. During World War II, a group of British RAF pilots decided it needed a cheerier moniker and renamed it the Pig and Whistle. The "pig" refers to an old drinking peg, or unit of alcohol, and the "whistle" is a corruption of the word "wassail," meaning to drink and be merry. Although the pub has changed hands many times, the name stuck and it remains the oldest continually licensed pub in South Africa. The food is excellent, with fresh produce from neighboring farms. Pig and Whistle, 268 Kowie Road, Bathurst; + 27 46 625 0673  MORE: Insider Guide: The best of Cape Town 3. Offbeat and eccentric stores As a community of artists, academics and musicians, many residents say they were attracted by the village's creative spirit. Some came for a weekend and never left. The Coathanger, a retro and vintage clothing store specializing in "shabby chic," is one among a group of art galleries and craft shops with funky collections. The store feels like a museum -- old suitcases are stacked beside a 1970s toaster alongside piles of vinyl records and "Boys Own" annuals dating to the 1950s. Out front, the small lawn is bordered by lavender bushes and features a white ceramic toilet topped with a pair of black stilettos. "The toilet? I'm going to plant strawberries in it," says owner Lindi Pieterse, as if it's the most obvious thing in the world. "It's a sleepy little town, but it really comes to life on a Sunday -- that's when the hippies come out," says resident Marcel Pullen who runs a pottery studio and shop with her husband. "People live here because they want to get away from it all and there are some really interesting people here, like the couple down the road that run the Dancing Donkey." That would be paleontologist Rob Gess and his wife Serena, whose unusually named shop in a small thatched hut sells African arts and crafts made by local artisans, as well as Serena's own line of natural organic products. The Coathanger, Main Road, Bathurst; + 27 72 064 7002  Richard Pullen Open Studio, 613 Kowie Road; + 27 46 625 0166 The Dancing Donkey, Ndlambe, Bathurst  MORE: Cape Town and other great cities for 'detective travel' 4. Cheesy humor and kitsch memorabilia  Visitors encounter plenty of the village's cheesy humor. An advertisement for the Pig and Whistle boasts: "There's no thirst like Bathurst." Meanwhile, the pub door is inscribed with a bon mot of its own: "Bathurst is a drinking village with a farming problem." Inside, a wall is dedicated more wisecracks: "Marriage is a relationship in which one person is always right and the other is the husband." A leftover from early settlers, this is British wit at its silliest -- the sort found on old school seaside postcards and one-liners that might've gotten a rise out of Benny Hill. Souvenirs of these gags can be found at The Corner Art Gallery, which sells shirts that can be printed with the customer's name alongside the line "Instant Idiot -- just add alcohol." The gallery also sells beautiful ceramics, art and fabric prints. The Corner Gallery, corner of York and Trappes, Bathurst; + 27 46 625 0114 5. A museum of hoes and wagons Ever wonder what an ostrich incubator looks like? Bathurst Agricultural Museum has the answer. Set up in 1970 to house old farming equipment, the museum now has more than 1,300 pieces on display, from ox wagons, old tractors and wagons to old dairy utensils and a steam engine. Bathurst Agricultural Museum; + 27 72 408 4858; Monday-Saturday. 9 a.m.-4 p.m. MORE: 26 stunning travel stops across Africa Kate Whitehead is a Hong Kong-based writer who recently visited South Africa. She's the former editor of Cathay Pacific's inflight magazine, Discovery. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/us/edward-snowden-interview-10-things/index.html	us	Edward Snowden's interview: 10 things we learned - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 01:58:09 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Traitor or patriot? Low-level systems analyst or highly trained spy? Slammed by top U.S. government officials and facing espionage charges in the United States, former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden described how he sees himself during an interview with NBC "Nightly News" broadcast Wednesday. And he defended his decision to leak documents about classified U.S. government surveillance programs. We've heard from Snowden a few times before, but the NBC interview with anchor Brian Williams inside a Moscow hotel was his first on an American television network. Here are 10 key points from the interview with the 30-year-old former NSA contractor: 1. Snowden thinks he's a patriot. "I think patriot is a word that's thrown around so much that it can be devalued nowadays," he said. "Being a patriot doesn't mean prioritizing service to government above all else. Being a patriot means knowing when to protect your country, knowing when to protect your Constitution, knowing when to protect your countrymen, from the violations of and encroachments of adversaries. And those adversaries don't have to be foreign countries." That assessment drew a sharp response from U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, who spoke with NBC earlier Wednesday. "Patriots don't go to Russia. They don't seek asylum in Cuba. They don't seek asylum in Venezuela. They fight their cause here," Kerry said. "Edward Snowden is a coward. He is a traitor. And he has betrayed his country. And if he wants to come home tomorrow to face the music, he can do so." 2. Snowden says he was trained as a spy. U.S. President Barack Obama famously referred to Snowden as a hacker last year, and other officials have described him as a low-ranking analyst. That's misleading, Snowden said. "I was trained as a spy in sort of the traditional sense of the word -- in that I lived and worked undercover, overseas, pretending to work in a job that I'm not -- and even being assigned a name that was not mine," Snowden said. "Now, the government might deny these things. They might frame it in certain ways, and say, oh, well, you know, he's a low-level analyst. But what they're trying to do is they're trying to use one position that I've had in a career, here or there, to distract from the totality of my experience." 3. Russia isn't where he expected to end up, but he's managing.  "I personally am surprised that I ended up here," Snowden said. "The reality is I never intended to end up in Russia. I had a flight booked to Cuba onwards to Latin America, and I was stopped because the United States government decided to revoke my passport and trap me in the Moscow airport." There's a culture gap, and it's been an adjustment. "But even though I didn't choose to be here, even though circumstances really trapped me here, I can adapt. I can live life as an American more or less. That's the beauty of the Internet is that we're no longer tied to our communities by physical connections," he said. 4. Like a lot of us, he's been spending his free time watching old episodes of "The Wire."  "I'm really enjoying it," he said, though he added that the second season is "not so great." 5. He's not happy about some things the Russian government is doing. Snowden says he has no ties with the Russian government, and he isn't happy with some of its policies. "It's really frustrating for someone who's working so hard to expand the domain of our rights and our privacy to end up stuck in a place where those rights are being challenged in ways that I would consider deeply unfair," he said. There's no good reason, for example, for a recent law requiring bloggers to register in Russia, he said. "I can't think of any basis for a law like that, not just in Russia, but any country," he said. "The government shouldn't regulate the operations of a free press." So why doesn't he do something about it. "There's so much that needs to be defended here in Russia, but I'm limited by my inability to speak Russian, and so on. It's an isolating and frustrating thing." 6. It only takes a cell phone for spy agencies in the United States and other countries to find out a lot about you if they want to. And that's even if you're just Googling something simple, Snowden said, like a sports score (Williams told Snowden he'd recently searched for the score of a New York Rangers game). "The NSA, the Russian intelligence service, the Chinese intelligence service, any intelligence service in the world that has significant funding and a real technological research team can own that phone the minute it connects to their network," Snowden said. They can turn on a phone remotely if it's off, he said. And even a detail like a Google search for a sports score can reveal a lot about you. "You probably speak English. You are probably an American. You are interested in this sport. They might know what your habits are," Snowden said. 'Where were you in the world when you checked the score? Do you check it when you travel? Do you check it when you're at home? They could tell your pattern of life. Where are you doing these activities? When do you wake up? When do you go to sleep? What other phones are around you? Are you with someone who's not your wife? Are you someplace that you shouldn't be?" 7. He wants to return to the United States someday. "If I could go anywhere in the world, that place would be home," he said. But he responded with a series of questions rather than specifics when asked what he missed about home. "What don't I miss? What would you miss? What wouldn't you miss?" he said. "I miss my family. I miss my home. I miss my colleagues. I miss the work." 8. So why doesn't he come back to the United States to face charges? Snowden says that's a fair question, but an ignorant one. Because he was charged under the Espionage Act, Snowden says he has no chance to make a public defense of his case. "You are not allowed to argue based on all the evidence in your favor because that evidence may be classified," he said. "When people say, 'Why don't you face the music?' I say, 'You have to understand the music is not an open court and a fair trial.'" 9. Why did Snowden leak classified documents? He says he had no choice. "The reality is, the situation determined that this needed to be told to the public. The Constitution of the United States had been violated on a massive scale," Snowden told Williams. "Now, had that not happened, had the government not gone too far and overreached, we wouldn't be in a situation where whistleblowers were necessary." The U.S. government, Snowden said, is using the threat of terrorism "to justify programs that have never been shown to keep us safe but cost us liberties and freedoms that we don't need to give up and our Constitution says we shouldn't give up." 10. He says he tried to go through official channels before leaking information but met dead ends. Among the people he contacted, Snowden siad, was the NSA's general counsel office. "I reported that there were real problems with the way the NSA was interpreting its legal authorities," Snowden said. "And the response, more or less, in bureaucratic language was, 'you should stop asking questions.'"  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/africa/egypt-presidential-election/index.html	world	Egypt: Polls suggest ex-military chief al-Sisi wins presidency - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 03:15:53 EDT 2014	Egyptians, did you vote in the presidential election? Tell us why or why not. Cairo (CNN) -- Former Egyptian military chief Abdel Fattah al-Sisi is poised to win the country's presidential election in a landslide -- though the fairness of the vote has been questioned. Exit polls suggest al-Sisi won 95.3% of the vote, while opponent Hamdeen Sabahy garnered only 4.7%, according to data from the Egyptian Center for Public Opinion Research and the Egyptian TV channel MBC Masr. The final results will be announced by Monday, Egypt's state-run Ahram Online news agency reported. The country struggled to get voters to the polls this week. Officials added a third day of voting Wednesday in an attempt to boost turnout. By the end of the election, 25 million voters had cast ballots, Ahram Online said. The election was called amid a turbulent political year in Egypt. Former President Mohamed Morsy was removed from power in July in a popular military coup. Al-Sisi, who was army chief at the time, stepped down from his military post this year to run for president. Fairness questioned Human Rights Watch said Egypt's 10-month-long crackdown on the opposition impeded the fairness of the presidential elections. "The mass arrests of thousands of political dissidents, whether Islamist or secular, has all but shut down the political arena and stripped these elections of real meaning," the group's Middle East director, Sarah Leah Whitson, said in a statement Wednesday. Vote extension criticized  Both candidates had criticized the extra day of voting Wednesday and had filed complaints. "Extending the voting period for no real plausible reason will open the door to possible vote violations and rigging," said Hussein Abdel Ghany, a top adviser to Sabahy. Question of legitimacy Politicians, officials and the media have emphasized the importance of a high turnout for al-Sisi's future legitimacy. Analysts have said he would want to beat the turnout rate of the 2012 presidential elections, which was 46% in the first round and increased to 51.8% (25.5 million). Al-Sisi's real battle, it appeared, was for a high turnout -- not against Sabahy. CNN's Salma Abdelaziz, Reza Sayah and Dina Amer contributed to this report 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/sport/rugby-sporting-physique-compared/index.html	iSport	Rise of the supersize rugby player - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 07:35:17 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Long-time rugby fans don't need graphs or charts to see that players are getting bigger. But even a studious supporter might be surprised at the difference in size between today's top players and those playing 40 years ago as the top row of the graphic above shows. This snapshot of three New Zealand backs viewed at 10-year intervals over four decades shows that average height and weight has increased by 10 cm (four inches) and 14 kilograms (31 lbs) respectively. While the sample -- a wing, a center and a fullback -- might be small, it does reflect changes going on in the sport. Professor Jean-Francois Toussaint, director of the Institute of biomedical and epidemiological research for sport (IRMES) at the French Institute of Sport (INSEP) has been involved in a number of scientific studies in recent years examining sporting physique. "The change has been dramatic in the last 20 years with large increases in all championships both in the southern and northern hemisphere," Toussaint said. "The increase in both forwards and backs has been around four to five centimeters over the past 20 years and an increase in 12 kilograms. It has been a large change," he added. These muscle-bound physiques have broadly coincided with the advent of professionalism (in 1995) and have made size a key determinant of a team's fortunes. Bigger, it seems, is better, according to research led by Toussaint's INSEP colleague, Adrien Sedeaud. In a study published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine in 2012, Sedeaud looked at the height and weight of more than 2,500 rugby players at six World Cups from 1987 to 2007. What he found was that the teams which performed the best had the tallest backs and the heaviest forwards. Other factors also came into play -- greater collective experience is also important, Sedeaud concluded -- but it was notable that amid all the complexities of measuring performance that things like player weight and height were so obviously playing a prominent part. This supersizing of sportsmen hasn't been limited to rugby players, it's evident in many other elite-level sport. But why? "These changes have both to do with the (rising) mean height of the population, but at the same time the knowledge of training, conditioning and the hours spent training and in recovery. Many of these things have played a small role in the changes," Toussaint said. Read: Legendary Fijian honored Increased use of anabolic steroids may also be a factor, he thinks, although in rugby's case the incidence of positive tests is low compared with some other sports. In his study, Sedeaud points to the World Anti-Doping Agency's 2009 annual report which identified 39 positive samples out of 5,725 tests. Non-contact sports like tennis and swimming have also seen the same upward curve in recent decades. "For tennis, the men increased by seven centimeters in 50 years and the women increased by 10 cm in the same years. Both sexes have seen the same trend," Toussaint said. But there are already signs that these growth spurts may be starting to tail off. "We are seeing places where plateaus have been reached already or are close to being reached -- for example the height," Toussaint said. Read: How radio made the rugby star "If you look at the U.S. baseball data from 1868 you see increases in both mass and height -- but the height has stopped for the past 30-40 years," he added. "In American Football you see the same thing. Basketball is also the same -- in the past 30 years the height of those players hasn't changed. "On the other side, the mass (BMI) -- which is a very strong parameter influencing the performance both in speed and inertia -- is still increasing a little bit."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/europe/ukraine-crisis/index.html	world	Pro-Russia force admits holding OSCE monitors in Ukraine - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 04:44:52 EDT 2014	Donetsk, Ukraine (CNN) -- Pro-Russia separatist militants are holding four European observers who have been missing since Monday, the self-declared mayor of a Ukrainian rebel stronghold told CNN. But he he declined to say where exactly. "Our militants got them," Vyacheslav Ponomarev said Thursday. "They were detained because they didn't respect my request. I asked them not to leave Donetsk (city). They decided they were smarter and could come here." Ponomarev, the self-described mayor of Slovyansk, added the Organization for Security and Co-operation monitors were not being held in the town. They also are not "exchange material," indicating they were not being held to swap for other separatists detained by Kiev authorities. Ponomarev said he had been in contact with the OSCE, and they were assessing the situation. He said he would likely release them soon, but wouldn't say when. On Wednesday, Ukrainian Foreign Ministry spokesman Yevhen Perebynis said a pro-Russia group was holding the OSCE monitors. "The negotiations for their release are in process," Perebynis said. The team members, who are Swiss, Turkish, Estonian and Danish, were on a routine patrol Monday east of Donetsk when last heard from, according to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. The last time an OSCE team went missing in Donetsk, its members turned up in the hands of militant separatists in the town of Slovyansk. They were freed just over a week later. There were fears Wednesday that another group of 11 monitors had gone missing after being stopped at a roadblock in Marinka, west of Donetsk, but the group reestablished contact with the OSCE after returning to Donetsk, according to an OSCE statement. Clashes in eastern Ukraine  Ukraine's National Guard base in Luhansk was attacked Wednesday by what Ukraine's Interior Ministry described as "terrorists." "There have been losses among military personnel as well as among the attackers," a statement from the ministry said. The Luhansk region in eastern Ukraine is at the heart of the separatists' bid to declare independence, which is mirrored in the neighboring Donetsk region. There, dozens of pro-Russia separatists were killed after Ukrainian security forces launched an assault on Donetsk International Airport on Monday, following the militants' seizure of a terminal. The Ukrainian military's move against the militants at Donetsk airport has been interpreted by some as an indication that the newly elected president Petro Poroshenko will take a tougher stance. Ukraine: Fierce fighting closes Donetsk airport, claims dozens of lives Opinion: Free elections good for Ukraine, but could be bad for Putin CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reported from Donetsk. CNN's Susanna Capelouto and Andrew Carey contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/business/opinion-pfizer-astrazeneca-george-freeman/index.html	iBUSINESS	Forget Pfizer pitch, UK must unleash power of its public health service - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:14:43 EDT 2014	Editor's note: George Freeman was elected to parliament in 2010, after 15 years in biomedical venture capital. Freeman was formerly a director at Merlin Biosciences, chief executive of Amedis Pharmaceuticals, and founder of 4D Biomedical Ltd. In 2011 he became Government Adviser on Life Sciences. This year he became a UK Trade Envoy. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Following AstraZeneca's most recent rejection of Pfizer's bid, many may ask if this is a lost opportunity for British innovation, or the salvation of it? I think both points of view miss the real story. The key challenge for the UK is not about ownership structure, but about being a hub for the development of 21st-century medicines. To be sure, most of the UK life science sector will be mightily relieved that Britain is still home to two of the global giants of biomedicine. But Britain must not become complacent about bioscience investment. To keep them and other companies investing here we need to continue the prime minister's crusade to make the UK the best place in the world for 21st century medicine design. To understand why, you need to understand the sector. Having worked for fifteen years in the industry -- not for "Big Pharma," but for insurgent biotech companies and charities, who are increasingly the ones discovering most of the new medicines -- the controversy over the proposed merger was fascinating. It highlighted fundamental issues at the heart of the revolution transforming the pharmaceutical industry. The truth is that "Big Pharma" is failing to develop enough new medicines. Their old business model -- dependent on producing a steady pipeline of expensive "blockbuster" drugs to sell to Western governments -- is broken. Instead, these companies have now become reliant on the smaller and more innovative biotechs (and increasingly charities) to fill their pipelines with a new world of genetically targeted medicines. The pharma sector is radically changing, from being all about the discovery of old style drugs through biological research, to the design of personalized and genetically profiled drugs through research based more in hospitals than pharma factories. To succeed in this new world of 21st century biomedicine, the UK has to unleash the unique power of its public health service the NHS -- a global powerhouse for modern drugs design. If we do so, we can deliver huge benefits to NHS patients, slow death rates in key diseases like cancer, reduce our drugs bill by making the UK the fastest and best place in the world to develop, test and prove these new medicines -- which would allow us to pay a discounted rate -- AND kickstart a 21st century life sciences cluster. It's a massive prize. That's why I was so pleased when the prime minister invited me to help the UK set out our ground-breaking Life Science Industrial Strategy in 2011, which has been internationally welcomed. Different companies are responding to this challenge in different ways. AstraZeneca last year electrified the sector by wholeheartedly embracing the Life Science Strategy, embedding its staff in the Cambridge biotech and hospital campus. Pfizer, meanwhile, is known in the sector as the lead exponent of the M&A model: delivering shareholder returns by acquiring other companies. In either case, the success of the Life Science Strategy was proved when both announced that after closing their respective factory plants in Sandwich and Cheshire, they were moving not to Cambridge, Massachusetts, but Cambridge, UK. The fact that these companies are in the UK, despite our becoming in recent decades one of the slowest and lowest priced purchasers of drugs, is testament to the model we have adopted. The truth is that we need to worry less about who owns these companies -- after all the shareholders in both cases are global, as is the management -- and more about their level of commitment to the UK as a place to develop and sell modern medicines. We need to be rolling up our sleeves and making sure whoever owns the company has a strong commitment to the UK for the right reasons, namely because it is the best place on earth to develop 21st-century medicines. Western governments no longer have a right to expect or demand investment. We have to compete and win it by being more entrepreneurial. The truth is that what really matters is that the UK remains a world-class place to discover and develop new 21st-century medicines. If we get that right, we can be relaxed about where the capital and talent flows from. Without it, we won't have any takeovers to debate. The very possibility of the takeover was a tribute to the UK as a place where people want to do business. For the physical and economic health of us all, long may it remain that way. READ MORE: Pfizer ditches pursuit of AstraZeneca READ MORE: Pfizer bid reveals British protectionism WATCH MORE: Pfizer defends its bid The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the George Freeman. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/travel/underrated-cities/index.html	travel	10 of the world's most underrated cities - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:09:06 EDT 2014	Editor's note: CNN first published this story in May 2012. We've updated it and added comments from our readers. We invite you to comment again, on what cities you think deserve more recognition from travelers.  (CNN) -- Perhaps because of their proximity to better-known locales, travelers too often neglect legitimately interesting cities. Call us sentimental, but it's an oversight we want to correct. These places are livable, creative hubs, championed by locals, worth more than a quick stop before you head elsewhere. Queens, New York  OK, officially it's a part of NYC, but this borough has a population of 2.3 million and virtually qualifies as a city in itself. It might lack the glamour of Manhattan, but it's still one of the most diverse places on the globe. "Queens is definitely overlooked ... I'm glad that it's not nearly as visited (save for it being the location of two major airports) as Manhattan or Brooklyn. I'd like it to stay as is ..." says CNN commenter BuildingMyBento. More than 170 languages and dialects are spoken in the borough -- residents say it's like going around the world without ever leaving. First stop? Jackson Heights gives a sub-continental vibe. It's the place for saris and gold jewelry and South Asian restaurants. Then there's Flushing, home to the U.S. Open Tennis Championships as well as the second largest Chinatown in New York, and Jamaica, with its jazz heritage. Other "musts" include the Museum of the Moving Image and the Bohemian Hall & Beer Garden, a relaxed neighborhood park and watering hole serving Czech beer and food with live music -- perfect in warmer months. Queens has beaches and forested parks, including Rockaway, a surfing beach, and Flushing Meadows Corona, with a zoo, lake, theater, and Shea Stadium, where the New York Mets play baseball. MORE: How to be a New York local: 11 tips for faking it Bergen, Norway Surrounded by mountains and the gateway to the Norwegian fjords, this pretty city on Norway's west coast is the ideal destination for cruise fans and nature lovers. By European standards it's compact, and locals are proud of Bergen's small town charm and laid-back atmosphere. Attractions include the old quarter of Bryggen, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, with picturesque alleyways and harbor buildings. Music lovers will be drawn to the Edvard Grieg Museum, once home of Norway's most famous composer, while foodies will want to sniff out the Bergen Fish Market. There's also a funicular to the top of Floien Mountain to catch views of the city and a selection of hikes on well-marked trails. That said, it's not an idyllic holiday destination, as CNN commenter Mentat57 attests: "Bergen is a nice city all right, but it does have the slight drawback of 275 days of rain per year." Still, as American writer William Author Ward famously said: "A cloudy day is no match for a sunny disposition." The locals have plenty of that, too. MORE: Video: A year of shimmering Northern Lights in Norway  San Juan, Puerto Rico Given Puerto Rico's stunning beaches and coastal highlights, including the Bioluminescent (phosphorescent) Bays and El Yunque Rainforest, people sometimes assume the capital doesn't have much to offer. They're wrong. There's the dramatic El Morro Fortress, high above the sea, and the cobbled streets of Old San Juan, with their 16th- and 17th-century Spanish colonial buildings. But the city is also in the throes of a revival. From chic new hotels to nightspots, boutiques, dance venues (salsa rules here) and art galleries, urban sophisticates will find much to whet their appetites. For starters, there's the newly revamped Museo de Arte, featuring Puerto Rican artists, a two-hectare garden and theater. Night owls will love the sleek San Juan Water Beach Club Hotel, with its waterfalls, blue-lit rooms, bars, restaurants and minimalist decor, and the Nyuorican Caf, which has a live salsa orchestra. There's good midnight curry at the Latino-Hindu fusion restaurant, Tantra. "[The] old city is a gem, though a tiny fraction of the city, which is otherwise plain bland," says CNN commenter Oushen. MORE: 10 most affordable Caribbean hot spots Darwin, Australia In the shadow of big sibling Sydney, Darwin is a balmy, tropical city, with a relaxed vibe. It's just four hours by air from Singapore, and two from Bali. Of course, there's no pleasing some people. "Darwin??!?! Really??! I grew up there and couldn't wait to leave! I now reside in Melbourne and nothing could drag me back!" spits CNN commenter Prasad Gunatunga. But for others, the likes of Robbie Mills, a traditional Larrakia guide (his people are the traditional owners of Darwin) who offers cultural walking tours along the city's esplanade, make it a worthwhile stop. You'll learn about aboriginal history and culture, bush tucker and plants. Mindil Beach has some great open-air markets, open from April to October, from sunset till late. Here you'll find a range of food stalls serving global fare and everything from indigenous art to pottery. There's live music, too. Harbor cruises and, if you're a fan of the late Steve Irwin, the Cage of Death (an underwater crocodile viewing cage) at Crocosaurus Cove, are parts of the experience. MORE: More camels than koalas -- 20 bizarre Australia discoveries Isfahan, Iran Isfahan is one of Iran's great treasures, breathtakingly elegant, located at the foot of the Zagros mountains. Its star attraction is Imam Square. It's one of the world's largest, dominated by the Imam Mosque complex, which twists toward Mecca, though it's the smaller Sheik Lotfollah mosque with its stunning dome that stuns visitors. The covered bazaar, just off the square, is great for miniatures and decorative tiles and chaikhanas, or teahouses, offering fresh brews and flavored shisha pipes. After dark belongs to the courtyard caf and tearoom at the Abbasi, a five-star hotel and former caravanserai. It's a magnet for city's professionals, who are eager to practice their English on the all-too-rare tourists in their midst. Final mention must go to the Zayandeh River and its exquisitely pretty, arched Khaju Bridge (pictured in gallery). MORE: Iran: time for travelers to return? Lisbon, Portugal When it comes to European cities, tourists usually look to Paris or Rome. Or London or Amsterdam or Barcelona or Prague or ... you get the picture. Lisbon deserves a look-in. It's full of character and flanked by beautiful, un-crowded beaches, making it a good alternative to the touristy Algarve. The city is home to the Museu Calouste Gulbenkian, one of the world's great (largely unsung) museums, housing a collection of Egyptian, Green, Roman, Islamic, Asian and European art and the Belem Tower, a city landmark. Portugal is renowned for the sweet, soft eggy confection known as Pasteis de Nata. The best custard tart in town may be found at the Antiga Confeitaria de Belem. The recipe is 170 years old and the sweet treats are thought to have originally been sold at the Jeronimos Monastery across the road. MORE: 7 reasons Lisbon could be Europe's coolest city Glasgow, Scotland Travelers who make the journey north from England most often head to the Scottish capital Edinburgh. Glasgow, however, arguably has the best music scene in Britain (Londoners will dispute this) with scores of clubs and concert halls, including the much raved-about Barrowland Ballroom, which hosts all sorts of acts -- large, cool and up-and-coming. There's a lot more to do here. For families, there's the Science Centre and the collections of curios at the Zaha Hadid-designed Riverside Museum -- it has everything from children's toys to motorbikes. The city has some of the UK's best shopping outside of London. For designer goods there's Princes Square, while the Willow Tearooms, designed by influential Scottish architect, designer and artist Charles Rennie Mackintosh provides a great cuppa. The menu features Scots Porridge and Scottish shortbread. MORE: 6 haunting battlefields of Scotland  Hoi An, Vietnam It's not technically a city, but this seaside heritage spot on Vietnam's central coast is such an enchanting contrast to hectic Hanoi that it's worth a mention. It's already a recognized spot in the Vietnamese tourist trail. "I enjoyed Hoi An, Vietnam. But it's already teaming [sic] with ... numerous cafes and boutiques catering almost exclusively to tourists! Any further uptick in rating will start ruining the place (if the process hasn't begun already)," says one CNN commenter. The former trading port is known for its historic architecture, a mix of Vietnamese, Japanese, Chinese and European styles. Visitors rave about its fairytale lanterns, Vietnamese silk and custom tailoring -- it's a great place to revamp a wardrobe. A Japanese-designed bridge, old canals, art galleries and great street food -- local specialties include "white rose" seafood dumplings -- make this town memorable. You can learn to cook the dumplings at the Secret Garden, a restaurant and live music venue that runs classes. Where to stay? The swish Nam Hai Hotel, seven kilometers up the coast on Ha Mai beach, is a favorite choice. The grounds are immaculately landscaped and the hotel runs a shuttle bus to town. MORE: Vietnam's most challenging foods  Calgary, Alberta, Canada Canada's gateway to the Rockies is often viewed as little more than an airport pick-up point. But it's special. It has a cowboy heritage all its own, and it's one of Canada's fastest-growing cities. In winter, the Calgary Flames NHL hockey team roars into action, while in summer, their place is taken by local football heroes, the Calgary Stampeders. The Calgary Stampede is one of North America's best-loved and biggest rodeos. If you're more "do-er" than watcher, Canada Olympic Park offers seasonal skiing, zip lines and mountain biking. Calgary is also home to the Glenbow Museum, Canada's largest, housing a vast collection of art and artifacts documenting the history and culture of western Canada. There's a growing foodie scene here. At the Farmers' Market you can find specialties such as elk and bison or pick up a pie at the Saskatoon Berry Farm stall. MORE: 10 things Canada does better than anywhere else Durban, South Africa Perceived to be unsafe, it's not surprising that the city, on the country's eastern coast, isn't the first port of call for visitors. But, largely thanks to its role as a host in the 2010 World Cup, tourist numbers are up. Locals rave about their city's year-round sunshine and vibrant, cosmopolitan vibe. "Durban is fantastic and the people are great," says CNN commenter Enban. "Miss that place and the wonderful atmosphere. Gounden's make the best bunnies." (See below for explanation.) Among cities, Durban is home to the highest concentration of Indians outside the subcontinent and has a blend of African and European cultures, too. Big draws include surf-friendly golden beaches, many temples and mosques (including the beautiful -- and beautifully named -- Hare Krishna Temple of Understanding, the uShaka Marine World theme park and the mammoth art deco-style Suncoast Casino, which doubles as a shopping mall and has its own private beach. Local specialty bunny chow -- piping hot curry in a scooped-out bun -- is best had at The House of Curries on Florida Road. MORE: 10 things to know before visiting South Africa Now tell us about your favorite underrated cities in the comments.  Jini Reddy is a freelance travel and lifestyle journalist based in the UK.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/business/custom-made-tricycles-lagos-waste-revolution/index.html	iBUSINESS	The custom-made tricycles driving Lagos's slum waste revolution - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:31:50 EDT 2014	Every week, African Start-Up follows entrepreneurs in various countries across the continent to see how they are working to make their business dreams become reality. (CNN) -- It's a bright May morning and the purple-shirted army of tricycle drivers is on the streets of Lagos once again. Eyes trained ahead, they zip past traffic on their specially-modified vehicles, dipping in and out of the Nigerian megacity's slums. This is the mobile division of Wecyclers, an innovative enterprise using an incentive-based program to help solve Lagos's acute waste management problem. Every week, the company's cyclists peddle from door to door in low-income neighborhoods to pick up recyclable trash from registered households. Items like plastic bottles, aluminum cans and plastic sachets are all weighed and logged on site, and from there are taken to a specific sorting area where they're bagged in order to be sold to recycling factories. In return, participating households receive points via SMS. These can eventually be exchanged for rewards, mainly donated items ranging from bowls and blenders to food products and mobile phone air time. "Every three months they have opportunity to redeem the points for something," says Weclycers chief executive Bilikiss Adebiyi-Abiola. "So we give them really small gifts that just motivate them and encourage them to recycle." Lagos, a sprawling megacity of more than 18 million people, generates a massive 10,000 metric tons of waste daily, according to the city's waste management authority. Only 40% of it is believed to be formally collected, leaving large quantities of rubbish blocking gutters and piling up on streets and outside houses -- a major health and environmental hazard. "Low income communities are the ones that are more affected," says Adebiyi-Abiola. "(People) end up living in their waste, so we basically saw that there was a really big need to provide collection services for people that are living in the low-income areas." Born and bred in Lagos, Adebiyi-Abiola went to the United States at the age of 17. There, she trained and worked as a computer scientist, before enrolling to MIT for a masters in business administration. It was during that time, while working on a study project focused on the problems faced by people in low-income areas, when she came up with the idea to launch a company offering waste collection and recycling services in her hometown. "I really love Lagos and I wanted to do something that would give back to it," says Adebiyi-Abiola. "For me, the environment is really where it all starts," she adds. "When you have a clean environment then you have health, when you have health then you can start thinking about money, jobs and things like that." Set up just a year and a half ago, Wecyclers has grown today to have some 5,000 households subscribed to its service. The startup has so far collected nearly 300 tons of waste, using a fleet of 16 low-cost cargo bicycles that are creatively designed to transport large cloth sacks of trash. In regards to recycling as a business, however, there are still many challenges faced by Wecyclers, which is yet to make a profit. "We hope that as we grow and add value to the material we sell, then we hope to see profits come in," says Adebiyi-Abiola, who employs 31 people. Despite the problems, the entrepreneur has big plans for the future. She says she's determined to keep on working to expand the service across Lagos and beyond and ultimately help to change people's attitudes toward waste. "I want to show the whole world that this is something that can succeed," says Adebiyi-Abiola. "That we can create a low-cost way of solving the Nigerian problems, the Lagos problems, here, with Lagos solutions," she adds. "To show that we can have ingenuity and innovation here and almost create a movement around waste and make people realize the importance of recycling and the environment -- I'm already seeing that but I want to see it on a really big scale all across Nigeria."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/china-tourism-marketing/index.html	world	First rule of Chinese tourism: Give them what they want - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:20:29 EDT 2014	Editor's note: This month's episode of On China with Kristie Lu Stout focuses on China's outbound tourism and airs for the first time on Thursday, May 29, 4:30 pm Hong Kong/Beijing time. For all viewing times and more information about the show click here. Beijing (CNN) -- As the global travel industry rolls out the welcome mat for China's surge of outbound tourists, it should consider tipping the scales in their customers' favor. Consider Emirates Airline, which has won over retail-crazy Chinese travelers by simply boosting their baggage allowance. "They increased their luggage allowance because they recognized when Chinese travelers go abroad, they come home with more than when they left," says Martin Rinck, Asia-Pacific president of Hilton Worldwide. "And just by making that change, they won tremendous market share of the Chinese consumer." For the latest CNN "On China" program, I talked to a panel of industry insiders about how to cater to China's rush of outbound tourists. Fittingly, we filmed our discussion inside Beijing Capital International Airport -- a rare opportunity for an international TV network. The airport is on track to become the world's busiest passenger hub. That's not a surprise, given the boom in Chinese business and leisure travel. By 2020, it's estimated more than 200 million Chinese will go overseas -- double the number that did so last year. "It has been one of the biggest dreams for Chinese travelers to go outside and travel overseas," says Chen Xu, a Beijing-based researcher at the Chinese Tourism Academy, a government think-tank that studies tourism trends. "And now the government has lifted restrictions on outbound travel, so for more Chinese, it's much easier to travel abroad." Fueled by more visas and more money, rising numbers of Chinese tourists are now able to fly further and spend more, many booking their own adventures online on travel sites like China's CTrip.com. "We just recently sold a very top-end package tour which is $200,000 per person for 88 days around the world," says CTrip.com Chief Operating Officer Jane Sun. She asks me to guess how long it took to sell the package. I play along: "Eight minutes?" "17 seconds," she says with a smile. Without a doubt, the interest and buying power of China's ultra-luxury travelers is immense. Across the board, China's outbound tourists are the world's biggest spenders. In 2012, they spent a record $102 billion on international tourism. And major booking volume is moving across mobile devices. "More than 50% of our hotel bookings are on mobile," says CTrip.com's Sun. Hilton's Martin Rinck adds: "China skipped the whole desktop/MacBook/computer thing and went straight to mobile." "Some companies are really proud to have a new website, but if it doesn't have the functionality to be read on a small device and have full integration on a mobile device, it's really of no use." It's also of no use if you don't welcome your Chinese guests in Mandarin Chinese. "We do this outbound Chinese travelers survey every quarter," says CTA's Chen Xu. "And we noticed that last year, for four consecutive seasons, lacking Chinese service and lacking Chinese-language TV programs or menus were the most unsatisfying factors." "As a business, you probably have to provide more Chinese-language services," he adds. CTrip.com company data is in line with CTA's quarterly surveys. "On our website, we rank the hotels and the sites," says Sun. "The hotels with Chinese services are ranked higher than the other hotels." And does that influence consumer choice? "Absolutely." In 2011, Hilton Hotels & Resorts launched "Hilton Huanying," a welcome program tailored for Chinese travelers. In a number of Hilton properties outside China, it rolled out China UnionPay terminals, front desk staff fluent in Chinese, and a range of tailored in-room amenities like Chinese-language TV and tea kettles. "We started the program in August 2011 with 15 participating hotels outside of China," Rinck tells me. "We now have 82, and those hotels doubled their percentage of Chinese travelers in a period of just two years." It's a clear message for the global travel industry: Tune those screens to Chinese TV and boost that baggage allowance. It pays to understand the needs of the 200 million tourists coming your way. READ: Gearing up to address China's rising outbound tourism  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/business/psychopath-test-infographic/index.html	iBUSINESS	Are you a psychopath? Take this test to find out - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:38:41 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/china-xinjiang-show-trial/index.html	world	55 sentenced -- 3 to death -- in China's terror 'show trial' - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 06:13:59 EDT 2014	Beijing (CNN) -- A Chinese court sentenced 55 people on terror charges before thousands of onlookers in a stadium in Xinjiang Province Wednesday, as part of a hardline response to a string of deadly attacks across the country. The trial was held in a stadium in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture in the restive western province of Xinjiang, before about 7,000 spectators, according to reports. The accused were found guilty by the Higher People's Court of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of charges including intentional homicide, separatism, and organizing, leading and participating in terrorist activities. Three of the accused were sentenced to death, state media reported, for the murder "with extreme cruelty" of a family of four in Yining City, using blades and axes, on April 20. The court named one of those sentenced to death over the attack, whose victims included a three-year-old girl, as Abulimiti Abdullah, state media reported. Pictures from the sentencing showed the accused held on the back of pick-up trucks, dressed in orange jumpsuits and surrounded by security forces. A banner across the back of the stadium read: "Yili Prefecture Public Judgment, Public Seizure, Public Arrest General Assembly." Li Minghui, vice-secretary of the prefectural Communist Party committee, vowed to strike hard against terrorists. "We have the confidence, resolution and capability to take a firm stance, form an iron hand and hit hard and fast like a thunder to vanquish the enemy's arrogant audacity," he was reported as saying. "We will achieve the final victory of this war of the people to stop terrorism and maintain stability." 'Deplorable' show trial Human rights organization Amnesty International called the proceedings a show trial, labeling it "deplorable" and saying it was no way to address public security concerns in the wake of the violence that has spread from the province. Most of those sentenced were believed to be Uyghurs, it said in a statement. "Those responsible for the recent violent attacks have shown a callous disregard for human life and must be held to account. But speedy show trials will not deliver justice for the victims," said William Nee, Amnesty's China researcher. "Hastily sentencing people after unfair trials will only exacerbate tensions." He said Chinese authorities appeared "more concerned with courting public opinion than justice." "It is highly doubtful the accused received fair trials," he said, adding that those sentenced were believed to be at risk of torture in detention. READ MORE: Xinjiang and tensions in China's restive west Spate of terror The trial follows a spate of terror attacks in public spaces across China linked to Xinjiang's Uyghur population, a mainly Turkic-speaking Muslim minority. The latest bout began when a jeep plowed into crowds in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, killing five and injuring at least 40, and have intensified in recent months. Twenty-nine people were killed and 130 injured when men armed with long knives stormed a train station in Kunming in March. The following month an attack on a train station in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, left three dead, including the attackers, while an attack on an Urumqi market earlier this month killed at least 39. In response, police in Xinjiang launched a crackdown on extremist groups in the province, arresting 200 suspects and seizing hundreds of explosive devices, Chinese state media reported this week. The state's anti-terrorist force has been beefed up in Xinjiang, and security tightened around the country. Some Uyghurs have expressed resentment towards China's Han majority in recent years over what they say is harsh treatment from Chinese security forces and Han people taking the lion's share of economic opportunities in Xinjiang. Amnesty said Uyghurs face widespread discrimination, including in employment, housing and educational opportunities, as well as curtailed religious freedom and political marginalization. OPINION: China faces its own 'war on terror'  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/malaysia-airlines-plane-what-next/index.html	world	What happens next in the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 06:39:19 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- What happens now? Australian officials have said they don't think missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 is in the patch of the southern Indian Ocean where underwater pings were picked up last month. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said in early April that authorities were "very confident" the signals were coming from the plane's flight recorders, raising hopes of closure among some of the families of the 239 people on board the passenger jet. But after spending weeks scouring the bottom of the ocean roughly 1,600 kilometers (1,000 miles) off Western Australia with a high-tech unmanned submarine, the searchers have drawn another blank, deepening the mystery surrounding the Boeing 777's fate. Wednesday, a U.S. Navy official told CNN that the pings at the center of the search for the past seven weeks are no longer believed to have come from the plane's black boxes. Instead, authorities think they came from some other man-made source unrelated to the jetliner that disappeared on March 8, according to Michael Dean, the Navy's deputy director of ocean engineering. However, a U.S. Navy spokesman called Dean's statement "speculative and premature." More than 11 weeks after Flight 370 dropped off radar screens over Southeast Asia on a scheduled flight to Beijing, officials in charge of the hunt are drawing a line through the ping-centered search and moving on to the next phase. Where does the search go next? The underwater search area guided by the pings covered more than 850 square kilometers (330 square miles). With that zone now ruled out, Australian authorities, who have been coordinating the search in the southern Indian Ocean, say attention will shift to a new area as large as 60,000 square kilometers. That's roughly the size of West Virginia. "The search will be a major undertaking," the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) said this week. "The complexities and challenges involved are immense, but not impossible." The underwater search will remain in the same overall region, as officials are basing their focus on an analysis of satellite, radar and other data that concludes the plane ended up somewhere along an arc stretching into the southern Indian Ocean. "What has not changed at this stage is the belief that, after weeks of research and re-analysis, that the Inmarsat data is correct and that they are looking broadly in the right area," said Geoffrey Thomas, the editor in chief of Airlineratings.com, referring to the satellite data provided by the British company Inmarsat. "Now clearly, we were hoping that the pings would narrow that broad area down to a narrow one, but that has not been the case, and now we have to unfortunately go the long road," Thomas told CNN. Will they start searching the new area immediately? No. In fact, it hasn't yet been fully mapped out. The ATSB said this week that it's reviewing existing information from experts in order to refine the new zone. Meanwhile, a specialized Chinese ship, the Zhu Kezhen, has begun mapping the ocean floor in some areas already picked out by the ATSB. A contracted commercial survey vessel will join those efforts next month. It's unclear how deep the water is in these areas because "it's never been mapped," Australian Deputy Prime Minister Warren Truss said earlier this month. Officials say depths are likely to exceed 6,000 meters (20,000 feet). The survey will take about three months and "give us crucial knowledge of the seafloor terrain needed to begin the underwater search," the ATSB said. Who will do the actual searching? That's still being figured out. The Bluefin-21, the robotic submersible supplied by the U.S. Navy that has been searching the area where the pings were detected, has reached the end of its mission. Search officials are regrouping and preparing to identify and deploy other high-tech equipment. But that's going to take some time -- up to two months, if not longer, according to Australian authorities. Officials say they want the next phase of the underwater search, which could take up to a year, to be led by a single private contractor who will bring together and manage several underwater assets in the search zone. Search coordinators say they are looking for sonar equipment that can be towed by a ship, an autonomous underwater vehicle with a mounted sonar device and optical imaging equipment. Some towed sonar devices, such as the U.S. Navy's Orion, can transmit data to the surface in real-time. They also have the capability of scanning a larger area than the Bluefin, which was limited to about 40 square kilometers during each mission. Only a handful of companies have such devices. Australian authorities say they plan to post their request for tenders for the next phase of the search in the coming days. Who's going to pay for it? That's another issue that isn't clear yet. Australia has estimated the next phase of the search will cost $60 million, with the breakdown of exactly who's going to pay for what yet to be announced. While 26 countries have participated in the hunt for the missing plane, Malaysia, China and Australia have held high-level talks about the future of the search. Malaysia is where the plane is from, most of the people on the flight were Chinese, and Australia had six passengers on board and is closest to the remote part of the Indian Ocean where searchers have focused their hunt. The United States has contributed a range of assets to the search so far, including the Bluefin-21, which costs an estimated $40,000 a day to operate. Are the searchers still looking in the right place? Australian officials say they remain confident in the conclusion -- reached by a team of experts from Boeing and aviation authorities around the world, including the United States and Europe -- that Flight 370 ended its journey in the southern Indian Ocean. Despite questions from independent experts, Inmarsat says it stands by its analysis of a series of communications between the plane and the company's satellite system that provided a key part of the conclusion about the jetliner's path. Earlier this week, Malaysian authorities released the satellite data from Inmarsat, meeting a long-standing request of some passengers' families who were unsatisfied by authorities' explanation of the plane's fate. Independent experts are now studying the data to see whether they agree with the official view.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/showbiz/tv/sixties-television-then-now/index.html	entertainment	How today's TV compares with the 1960s - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 06:59:59 EDT 2014	Experience "The Sixties" on CNN: Watch the premiere episode on CNN.com or on CNN TV at 9 p.m. ET/PT Thursday. During the show, chat live with "The Beaver" Jerry Mathers on CNN's Facebook page. And discover your '60s personality by taking the CNN Sixties quiz. (CNN) -- The history of television is a history of insults. The idiot box, it's been called. The boob tube. "57 Channels (and Nothin' On)." "Kill your television" says the bumper sticker. In 1961, it was famously deemed a "vast wasteland." After all, there were just three TV networks at the time. Most major cities didn't have public television stations (PBS was still years away). And the UHF band, where independent stations would later flourish, was barely used. The first communications satellite didn't go up until 1962. And the content? With few exceptions, the networks carried mostly dumbed-down, formulaic cop shows, Westerns, situation comedies and musical-variety programs. News was something people got from newspapers. "It was a very limited choice," says Newton Minow, the former Federal Communications Commission chairman who coined the "vast wasteland" phrase in his 1961 speech to the National Association of Broadcasters and has heard it repeated regularly over the last five decades. Times have changed, right? Actually, yes, says TV critic Eric Deggans. Of the many flaws of '60s entertainment TV, he says, a major one was that it didn't reflect what was going on in America, whether it was the civil rights movement or the escalation of the Vietnam War. "Back then, there was a lot of TV that was created by producers who really underestimated the audience," Deggans says. As the decade continued, television gingerly addressed some social change but certainly nothing like what was to come -- first in the 1970s with such Norman Lear sitcoms as "All in the Family" and "Sanford and Son" and in more recent years, novelistic shows such as "Breaking Bad." TV: The new, new golden age In fact, Deggans says even today's widely popular sitcoms and dramas, such as "Parenthood," engage with real life in ways that were forbidden 50 years ago. That's true even with "The Walking Dead," an end-of-the-word horror show about zombies. "What it's really about is man's inhumanity to man, and when something happens and all the chips are down, how do you respond as a human being?" he says, referring to "The Walking Dead." "When you think about what's going on in Nigeria or the Arab Spring or Syria, that's real life." Moreover, even the more formulaic shows don't take their viewers for granted. "I don't think any of those shows pander to their audience in the way that a show like 'Petticoat Junction' or 'Gilligan's Island' did," he says. "Those were classic comedies, but they were really, really simple. A show like 'NCIS' is absolutely about all these issues we're struggling with as a society." Ironically, Minow's 1961 speech was somewhat taken out of context. He actually praised the medium before lowering the boom: "When television is good, nothing -- not the theater, not the magazines or newspapers -- nothing is better," he said. His concern that TV wasn't properly serving the public is what prompted his criticism. Indeed, the speech was titled "Television in the Public Interest." The last half-century has been mostly positive, says Minow today -- and he observes that the federal government played a positive role in that growth. Minow, now 88 and an attorney in Chicago, was instrumental in requiring television sets to include a UHF dial and promoting the use of communications satellites. "I felt that the basic role of the government was to expand choice, because the government should not be in the business of deciding what's on the air," he says. "I think the expansion of choice was the government's main contribution." He does have some concerns, however, about the increasing consolidation of the communications industry over the last 50 years. "I think the idea of having local ownership has pretty much disappeared," he says. But he shrugs, "The horse is out of the barn." Massive mergers planned for TV providers Deggans notes, however, that despite the corporatization of media, there's still a much broader range than in the '60s -- or even in the '90s. After all, 50 years ago we had three networks. Now there's cable, the Internet is a major player allowing for video streaming, and technology lets anybody "broadcast themselves," to borrow YouTube's old slogan. They can choose when to watch, too. Yes, TV is still belittled. But the argument flows both ways. After his speech, Minow was tweaked by "Gilligan's Island" producer Sherwood Schwartz, who made the FCC chairman the namesake of a certain shipwrecked boat. Minow appreciated the gesture. "I told him I considered it a great compliment," he says. "It exposed my name to two generations of television viewers."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/22/sport/football/patrick-vieira-france-world-cup/index.html	iSport	Patrick Vieira reveals fears over 'divided' France - CNN.com	2014/05/22	Thursday May 22 08:40:28 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Winning a World Cup can help bring a divided country together, but that sense of unity can all too easily be dissipated, according to France's Patrick Vieira, who helped his country secure football's greatest prize on home soil in 1998. Aime Jacquet's squad was seen as representing as a new France. Vieira himself was born in Senegal, Marcel Desailly came from Ghana, Lilian Thuram from Guadeloupe, Zinedine Zidane's family hailed from Algeria, while others were of Polish and Armenian descent. France's win was widely viewed as a rebuke to Jean-Marie Le Pen -- former leader of the right-wing National Front party -- and his anti-immigration stance. "It was fantastic because we won it and we won it at the right time because I think politically, France was going through a difficult period and I think we won the World Cup and we showed to the French nation what France is really," Vieira, who was eligible to play for France through his grandfather, told CNN. "We had the players from all around the world and I think we showed the diversity of the French national team, we showed what the diversity of the French people are. "That's why it was really important to win the World Cup because we sent the message to the political world what we need to accept and what is the real face of France." He added: "We saw Paris was going crazy but not just Paris, France was going crazy and it just looked like a French revolution -- people in the streets celebrating and it was fantastic and this is when I really realized how football can be powerful." Football, though, can only do so much, and Vieira, who won 107 international caps, feels that those running the country missed out on a golden opportunity to enable France to capitalize on that new found unity. "When we won the World Cup, we saw the change but the change was there just for a while and I think that is the problem with politics," said Vieira. "Things change really quick and people were using the success of the national team to promote themselves and that was a big issue," he said. "But I think winning the World Cup changed a lot of things for people because it gave people more belief, more confidence in themselves, how they can adapt and stand up for what they think is right, and I think it helped people to fight against racism and I think that was good." Sixteen years after les bleus' World Cup success racism is still a problem in France and last year the country's most prominent black politician Christiane Taubira was featured on the cover of the far right weekly magazine with the words: "Crafty as a monkey, Taubira gets her banana back." Antisemitic attitudes are also prevalent. Former France international Nicolas Anelka was banned for five matches and fined 80,000 ($135,000) in February for making a "quenelle" gesture -- a sign believed to be an inverted Nazi salute -- although the striker denied that it had any antisemitic connotations. "With what is going on in France, I feel the country is still divided because I think religion and people taking part try to divide people," Vieira said. "I think we have to accept our differences and the way to accept it is education. I think we have to even promote more education. "I think we have to talk more about our differences and not be ashamed of it and just accept who we are as a person and try to accept other people's differences as well, and I believe this is part of a lack of education." Read: Vieira: Senegal 'never asked me to play for them' Read: The street urchin who became a World Cup 'legend' Read: FIFA's World Cup 2014 bus slogans  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/india-gang-rape/index.html	world	Two girls raped, hanged in northern India, police say - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 07:11:33 EDT 2014	New Delhi (CNN) -- Two teen girls have been gang-raped and hanged in northern India, authorities said. The deadly attack happened Tuesday night at a village in Uttar Pradesh state's Budaun district, said R.K.S. Rathore, a deputy inspector-general of police. The victims were 14 and 16 years old and were cousins, police said. In their complaint, the families of the girls have accused three brothers of rape and murder, Rathore said. "Both the attackers and the victims were of backward castes and from the same village," he said. "We are investigating all possible angles and collecting evidence. So far, we have no evidence that points to any kind of enmity." One of the men has been arrested and charged, according to police. The hunt is on for the other two, Rathore said. A police constable has also been arrested over allegations that he sided with the suspects and delayed the registration of the case.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/business/psychopath-andy-mcnab/index.html	iBUSINESS	Does being a psychopath make you more successful? - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 07:32:38 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Nina dos Santos is a news anchor and correspondent based in London. She is the host of CNN International's new business show, The Business View, which airs weekdays at 12pm CET. Follow her on Twitter and tell us, using the hashtag #cnnbusinessview, what did your mother teach you? London (CNN) -- Andy McNab is trying to convince me that being a psychopath is good for business. "When I look at CEOs, or even political leaders, I don't want them to have empathy," he says. "What I want them to do is to have focus and to make the best decisions possible. "I want them to be ruthless," says the ex-soldier with a hint of passion so fierce it risks betraying his claim to "have no feelings." If the timbre of McNab's voice gives much away, his face is inscrutable in the darkened basement room chosen for our interview. His true identity is hidden because of anti-terrorism operations during his time in Britain's SAS. McNab isn't even his real name, rather a pseudonym adopted to write the 1993 book, Bravo Two Zero, recounting his time behind enemy lines in Iraq. Trauma, it seems, has been a recurring theme in McNab's life, which may explain the man's ability to master his emotions. Left at the door of a London hospital as a baby in a Harrods carrier bag, McNab had a rough upbringing, in and out of juvenile detention in South West London, before finding himself suited to the discipline of the army, which he joined at 19. Although he was only officially diagnosed as a psychopath four years ago, McNab says he always knew he was different. "As kids you run around the housing estates in gangs," he says. "Well, when the gangs started their smoking and their drinking, it didn't interest me at all... I was always slightly detached from that." As a professional soldier, McNab says he first killed a person during his first year in the military and was surprised to have felt no remorse. "You are in a situation where nine out of ten times in conflict they are trying to do the same to you. So you've got a responsibility to yourself to stay alive... you've got a responsibility to keep everybody else alive," he says. But what exactly is a psychopath? And is the disorder a hindrance or can it be a help? From Charles Manson, to Ted Bundy, the annals of crime history are replete with examples of what you might term traditional -- or dysfunctional -- psychopaths, people capable of carrying out the most abhorrent crimes, those without feeling or the ability establish meaningful relationships. Now after extensive research scientists have begun to realize a scale of less extreme psychopathic traits that may lie in some of us, ones which, if harnessed correctly, McNab says can be a secret weapon. "When we look at psychopaths, we always look at the Hannibal Lecter-type character. Or Norman Bates, but it's a broad spectrum," he says. "Focus is the key. And, in my line of work, I have found where I am on the psychopathic scale has been nothing but an advantage." Today, though, the grenades and guns are long gone. McNab saves his fighting talk for the boardroom, coaching top management on how to become better leaders, with a seat on five boards and a new book called The Good Psychopath's Guide to Success. "The board room is the same as the situation room," McNab says. "Nine out of ten times the decision processes are the same. "I tell them, get rid of the empathy. Focus on what you've got to do. The most important thing is the mission," he says. "Ask yourself what am I here to achieve?" And "empathy," he concludes, "doesn't help you get there." While McNab's message might sound harsh, his doctrine isn't new. In 2011, Jon Ronson's book "The Psychopath: A Journey Through the Madness of Industry" estimated the incidence of psychopathy among CEOs was four times larger than in the rest of society at large. In an interview with Forbes magazine, the journalist said the prevalence of psychopaths in the business world appears heightened because capitalism selects for their specific behavioral features. The psychopath, Ronson tells the publication has been "hailed and given high powered jobs, and the more ruthlessly his administration behaved, the more his share price shot up." And nothing makes a share price soar more than news of cost cuts. Which brings me to the question: how does a psychopath fire someone? McNab, it seems, is often called upon to help navigate this corporate minefield. "One particular woman I spoke to was brought on board to make about 400 people redundant. She had empathy for these people, for their families, for their mortgages." "For her it was [taking] a huge emotional toll. And it was a case of sitting down with her and trying to get her to think of it in a different way." So does McNab think the free market has taken the stigma out of the word "psycho" to society's detriment? "Certainly if we are looking at capitalism, what we have seen is the ones who step up more tend to be high on the psychopath trait level. That doesn't mean to say they're the Gordon Gekko types. Far from it." McNab says some two million people have logged on to take his web site's psychopath test while numerous chief executives have bought his new book. But McNab insists he isn't trying to convert all heads of industry to his unique line of thought. "We're not trying to make everyone a psychopath. That would be totally counterproductive. "What we are trying to do is to clear the decks for them to understand how their brands work, how their brains work, so that they can become more productive." And to sum up his strategy McNab uses a word rarely mentioned in the context of the psychopath's condition. "It's about striking a balance," he says. ARE YOU A PSYCHOPATH? TAKE THE TEST HERE  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/tech/discover-solar-powered-helicopter-that-flies-itself/index.html	tech	Fly Citycopter: Discover the sun-powered Citycopter that flies itself - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 07:15:28 EDT 2014	On The Move explores the world of future personal transport looking at the latest trends and tech innovations that shape global travel. Viewing this from mobile? Click here (CNN) -- It's happened to all of us. You wake up, have a bite, sip your coffee and then, full of energy and renewed optimism, you set off convinced that today will finally be your most productive day ever. And then commuting happens. Delayed trains, crammed buses, gridlock traffic -- they're all there to drain out your energy and hold you back from that promotion you feel you righteously deserve. But what if you could avoid crowded streets and ill-tempered drivers once and for all by simply taking to the skies in less than 60 seconds? That's the proposal put forward by Eduardo Galvani, a Brazilian visual artist and creator of the Fly Citycopter, an urban aerial vehicle concept designed to help commuters whizz around easier and in a more green way. Galvani's futuristic vision calls for a superlight personal helicopter that would be able to take off, fly and land while in autopilot mode. Made from carbon, aluminum and titanium, the Citycopter would use a combination of fans and electricity-powered motors to fly two people at a maximum speed of 130 miles per hour. In addition, solar cells embedded on the aircraft's exterior would allow it to generate energy during the flight and help it reduce urban pollution. "For most humans, a personal aerial vehicle is still just like a distant dream," Galvani, 36, told CNN. "But when you think about this, and mentally join some pieces, you can realize that the actual available materials and technologies can make possible for us to create this new reality, where a personal helicopter can be most efficient, economic, safer and easy to pilot than a common helicopter, and a smart way of transportation." True, there are still many practical issues that need to be resolved before we can fly our commuting blues away. Yet, Galvani says, he hopes his concept would inspire creative people to come together and develop cleaner -- and more exciting -- ways of urban transportation. Click on the points on the image above to find out more about the Fly Citycopter. (Top image courtesy of Eduardo Galvani).   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/health/runners-mistakes/index.html	health	6 common mistakes new runners make - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 07:48:41 EDT 2014	(Health.com) -- Running is a great way to get in shape and just about everyone can do it. You don't need access to a fancy gym, expensive equipment, or other people to do the workout. You can simply throw on your sneakers and head out the door for a run. Easy as that! Given that it's so easy to take up the sport, a lot of beginners jump right into running without actually knowing what it takes to establish a healthy routine. Many make a number of common mistakes, which can interfere with training or lead to injury. If you're just starting out, keep these things in mind to help you increase your chances of running success. Health.com: 11 reasons why you're not losing belly fat  Doing too much too soon One of the biggest mistakes newbie runners make is doing too much too soon. Picking up a new hobby like running is no doubt exciting, but novice runners need to ease into the sport by building up a mileage base before increasing the distance, intensity, and frequency of their runs. Slowly easing into a training program will help reduce the risk of injury, so you can continue on with your new running routine. Many experts suggest increasing your mileage by no more than 10% each week. Not taking rest days Beginners might think they need to run every day (or nearly every day) to meet their fitness or weight-loss goals, but this couldn't be further from the truth. Running is a high-impact activity which can be really hard on your body, especially for novice runners whose muscles and bones haven't yet been conditioned for such intense exercise. So it's important to give your body ample rest between workouts. Follow a training plan that includes rest days. Health.com: 16 ways to lose weight fast  Not wearing the right gear While it may be true that you don't need expensive equipment to take up running, it's important that you wear proper gear for your workouts. The most important piece of equipment for running is a good pair of running shoes, so be sure to do some research before you purchase a pair. Visit a running specialty store and ask an employee to fit you for a shoe. They will analyze your gait and then recommend a few options in your budget. Also essential: A supportive sports bra. Not cross-training When newbies take up running, they typically dive head first into their training with run after run. Running definitely makes you a better runner, but not if your regular exercise routine lacks variety in the form of cross-training. It's important to mix up your workouts so you're not always using the same muscles, which can put you at risk for overuse injuries and ultimately derail your efforts. Health.com: 24 fat-burning ab exercises (no crunches!)  Running through pain Running can be uncomfortable at times, especially for new runners. That feeling is all part of becoming a better runner, but pain is a different story altogether. If something hurts when you run, you need to stop and treat the pain. Remember: It doesn't make you less of a runner if you listen to your body to keep it healthy. Don't run through pain unless you want to end up on the sidelines. Comparing yourself to others When you're just starting out with running, it's tough not to compare yourself to others. You're excited about running, so you're probably reading running blogs, magazines, and message boards where you might start to feel inadequate about your own mileage or running pace. Instead of getting down on yourself, remember that every runner was once a beginner and use their success as motivation! This article originally appeared on Health.com.  Copyright Health Magazine 2011 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/politics/va-hospitals-shinseki/index.html	politics	Shinseki on VA scandal: 'We are not waiting to set things straight' - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 08:07:18 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A day after he was said to be on "thin ice" with the President, Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki says he's doing his utmost to address an inspector general's finding that hundreds of military veterans may have had their care delayed as VA hospital workers allegedly manipulated wait lists. In an opinion piece published Thursday in USA Today, Shinseki wrote that he found the report "reprehensible" and that he's "not waiting to set things straight." The piece comes a day after the inspector general's preliminary report said that at least 1,700 military veterans waiting to see a doctor were never scheduled for an appointment and were never placed on a wait list at the Veterans Affairs medical center in Phoenix, raising the question of just how many may have been "forgotten or lost" in the system. "I immediately directed the Veterans Health Administration ... to contact each of the 1,700 veterans in Phoenix waiting for primary care appointments in order to bring them the care they need and deserve," Shinseki wrote in the USA Today piece. Shinseki reiterated other steps he's taken, including putting the leadership at the Phoenix facility on leave May 1 and ordering a "nationwide audit of all other major VA health care facilities to ensure understanding of, and compliance with, our appointment policy." "We are doing all we can to accelerate access to care throughout our system and in communities where veterans reside," Shinkseki wrote. "I've challenged our leadership to ensure we are doing everything possible to schedule veterans for their appointments. We, at the Department of Veterans Affairs, are redoubling our efforts, with commitment and compassion, to restore integrity to our processes to earn veterans' trust." Dr. Thomas Lynch, the VA's assistant deputy undersecretary for clinical operations, has said there are plans in place to contact the 1,700 veterans in Phoenix by the close of business Friday to assess their needs and get them care. Describing a "systemic" practice of manipulating appointments and wait lists at the Phoenix Health Care System, the VA's Office of Inspector General called for a nationwide review to determine whether veterans at other locations were falling through the cracks. It also appears to indicate that the scope of the inquiry is rapidly widening, with 42 VA medical centers across the country now under investigation for possible abuse of scheduling practices, according to the report. Among the findings at the Phoenix VA, investigators determined that one consequence of manipulating appointments for the veterans was understating patient wait times, a factor considered for VA employee bonuses and raises, the report said. The preliminary report sparked outrage from all corners, with some lawmakers calling for the agency's chief to resign. Shinseki has been on "probation" since President Barack Obama vowed last week to hold accountable those responsible for the delays, and he remains on "thin ice" with the President pending the outcome of the internal investigations, a White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told CNN. The VA is under fire over allegations of alarming shortcomings at its medical facilities. The controversy, as CNN first reported, involves delayed care with potentially fatal consequences in some cases. CNN has reported that in Phoenix, the VA used fraudulent record-keeping -- including an alleged secret list -- that covered up excessive waiting periods for veterans, some of whom died in the process. The VA has acknowledged 23 deaths nationwide due to delayed care. The VA's inspector general, Richard Griffin, told a Senate committee in recent weeks that his investigation so far had found a possible 17 deaths of veterans waiting for care in Phoenix, but he added that there was no evidence that excessive waiting was the reason. Griffin recommended that Shinseki "take immediate action" to "review and provide appropriate health care" to the 1,700 veterans identified in Phoenix as not being on a wait list. He also recommended that Shinseki initiate a nationwide review of waiting lists "to ensure that veterans are seen in an appropriate time, given their clinical condition." Shinseki finds himself in a firestorm VA pledges faster appointments The VA's troubled history CNN's Jim Acosta, Wolf Blitzer, Jake Tapper, Tom Cohen, Eliott C. McLaughlin and Greg Seaby contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/tech/innovation/big-idea-swarm-robots/index.html	tech	At Harvard, swarming robots that mimic termites - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 07:59:00 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Ask 100 robotics scientists why they're inspired to create modern-day automatons and you may get 100 different answers. For a team at Harvard University, it's termites. "Not the ones around here that destroy buildings, but the ones on other continents that build ... mounds more than 40 feet tall," said Justin Werfel, a staff scientist at Harvard's Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering. "Somehow, all of them working together can build these large-scale, complicated things." The Harvard team members have created their own set of simple robots that they're trying to teach to emulate those termites. The result, so far, of the TERMES Project is a squad of autonomous robots that can be instructed to build towers, castles and pyramids out of foam bricks, then successfully negotiate their way around the things they create. It's part of a movement called "swarm robotics," and it's pretty much the opposite of all the Terminators and Cylons that we've grown up with in the science-fiction realm. "Typically, when you think of robotics, you think of one human-like, complicated robot," said Kristin Petersen, an academic fellow who spearheaded the design and construction of the TERMES robots. "Instead, in swarm robotics, we're looking at large numbers of simple ones. Rather than a robot being like a human, it's more like a bunch of robots that are like an ant colony." Or, you know, a termite colony. Petersen and Werfel said they both had independently thought about emulating mound-building termites, which live mainly in Africa, Australia and South America. READ: 10 pop-culture robots that shaped the future The team has gone to Namibia twice to study the termites there and plans a third visit. The scientists say the current TERMES robots are a basic version of what they'd like to create once they have a better idea of how millions of termites work together on a single, massive project, sometimes long after the insects who started the construction are dead. The team's robots take cues from each other based on which parts of the job have already been finished. So, when one robot leaves, say, a brick in a particular location, that tells the next robot what needs to be done next. "The power's in the swarm," Petersen said. "The power is in not having a single point of failure because you have this one really advanced robot. The power is in sending out a bunch of robots that are really simple and hoping that some of them will succeed." That's a key difference between TERMES and other swarm projects. Many others work more like an ant colony or beehive, with a single "queen" giving instructions to a team of underlings. In the long run, Werfel said, the TERMES system could be used on projects "where we want construction done, but we don't want people to be the ones to do it." That could be scenarios where it's difficult, expensive or dangerous to use human crews. "If we wanted to have a Mars base and we could send a team of robots on ahead to build the habitat first, that's obviously a big advantage for the human astronauts who would show up later," he said. Of course, the team acknowledges that such lofty goals are a long way off. But in the nearer term, the scientists can see termite-inspired swarm robots being used for tasks like building dikes and piling sandbags during floods, keeping humans out of harm's way. "If some of them get swept away by rising waters, none of the others need even take notice," Werfel said. "They don't have to do anything differently. They just keep working." Added Petersen: "We're not intending to replace humans. We're intending to work in situations where humans can't work or it's impractical for them to work."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/tech/innovation/bone-conduction-get-used/index.html	tech	Bone conduction: Get used to the voices in your head - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 07:52:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Long established as the premier portal for sound, your ears are facing increased competition from emerging techniques for transmission through your skeleton. Bone conduction has rapidly become a critical asset for treatment of hearing loss. While a new generation of cochlear implants has had spectacular success in recent years, they rely on air conduction and the patient possessing a functional pathway from outer to inner ear. For patients with severely damaged pathways, such implants offer no solution. Baha (bone anchored hearing aids) units work by passing sound from a microphone to a magnet or implant beneath a patient's skin, which is converted into vibrations in the skull and eventually arrives at the inner ear. This process extends the miracle of restored hearing to victims of such conditions as microtia or atresia, where the ear or canal is closed or deformed. "It's the natural spectrum of sound compared with traditional hearing", says Brian Walshe, spokesperson of hearing treatment company Cochlear. "Even with amplification it's the same, there's no distortion." The company recently launched a wireless Baha set, an indication of the technology's progress and growing popularity. Implants have become smaller and less invasive, while cosmetics have improved so that the system can be worn without advertising it. Bone conduction is not a new discovery. Ludwig Van Beethoven overcame deafness by biting a metal rod attached to his piano to hear his work. Neither do they need to be compensation for disability - such systems have been used by military in environments that require awareness as well as audio instructions. A member of the SEAL team which killed Osama Bin Laden wrote in his autobiography that bone conduction communication was critical to co-ordinating the raid. The innovation is beginning to seep into consumer electronics. In the early 2000s, headphone sets appeared that played music via the user's bones, but the systems were hamstrung by high cost and low quality, with common complaints about muffled and distorted sound. The makers of Aftershokz believe they have solved those problems with a unit that retails for $79. "The difficulty has been in transmitting vibrations through bone with enough power to be musical", says CEO Bruce Borenstein. "You need around 20,000 Hz to power the dual transducers, which has been our big breakthrough". The bone conduction system offers key safety advantages over traditional earphones, by leaving the user's ears free so that they are not distracted from their environment. It is even possible to drive wearing them, as they comply with the legal requirement to be able to hear on the road. The Audiology Foundation of America have also supported the concept, stating that it causes less damage to the ears than ear buds. A flood of competitors are entering the market and innovation is not limited to headphones. Google Glass are using bone conduction rather than ear buds for their speaker system, although there have been teething problems. Multiple patents are emerging for underwater and deep sea communication systems, and the technology has become cheap and accessible enough to be viable for novelty items such as talking pillows. The field has even expanded to offer audio communications through diverse body parts including the teeth and eyes. "In theory you can hear from anywhere", says Dr. Sunil Puria, ear biomechanics expert at Stanford University. "Although practically there would be disruption by having to pass through soft tissue depending on the point of contact." The technology has offered a new dimension to advertisers, with BBDO trialling a system on German trains that plays targeted messages to commuters as they lean against the window. The company claim a positive public reaction, and promise the concept will deliver social benefits through delivering announcements and emergency warnings. But the scheme has been controversial, with civil liberty activists arguing it is invasive and delivers content without consent. Dr. Puria foresees another ethical concern. "As it vibrates your skull to generate sound, others around you can also potentially hear a message sent to you, so there will be privacy issues. That's a problem that needs to be solved." But he believes the major technological hurdles have been overcome. "There has been tremendous progress, from miniaturization, to wearable and wireless, so that we have reached the holy grail of not requiring earphones." From medicine to entertainment, from reef diving to sleeping in our beds, we may have to get used to a whole new set of voices in our head. Read more from Make, Create, Innovate: Stealing from nature: Incredible new tech inspired by biology Forget wearable tech, embeddable implants are already here This 'Star Trek'-style molecular sensor fits in your hand, reads your food  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/sport/roland-garros-war-hero-french-open/index.html	iSport	Roland Garros: France's forgotten WWI hero - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 08:11:28 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- You'll find his name and initials everywhere you go at the French Open -- the famous green and brick red logo stamped on everything from parasols and caps to towels and tennis balls. But ask most people who Roland Garros was and they'll tend to double fault. "For a lot of people in France and abroad, Garros is a tennis man, or a sometime president of the French Tennis Federation (FFT)," says Michael Guittard, head of collections and cultural mediation at the FFT. "Everybody knows the name of Roland Garros, but nobody knows who he was. That's why we have an exhibition to explain that he is not a tennis champion, but a hero of World War One." Garros' elevated status wasn't earned down in the trenches, but up in the skies above the Western Front, as the exhibition at the FFT museum entitled "Moi... Roland Garros" explains. Born in 1888 on the French island of Runion in the Indian Ocean, Garros had won fame before the war, notably becoming the first man to fly across the Mediterranean Sea in September 1913. The following year, he switched from peacetime record-breaker to intrepid war pilot. Pioneering propellers Although he never reached the status of flying ace -- he is officially credited with shooting down four enemy aircraft during the war -- Garros gained notoriety another way by developing a means of allowing a machine gun to be fired forward through a plane's propeller arc. "He was an early pioneer in the development of fighter aviation," says Peter Jakab, chief curator at the U.S.'s Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum. His method of attaching wedge-shaped steel plates to the propeller blades may have been crude, but it worked, says Jakab. "The rate of fire was that most of the bullets would miss the propeller, but every so often one would strike it. So this was a way to deflect the bullets from the propeller," Jakab told CNN. "It wasn't very efficient, but in the very early months of the war when airplanes were either defenseless or carrying hand-held weapons, this technique made his aircraft more lethal than anything flying. Paris, nous t'aimons! WATCH: Players say why they love the city of light: http://t.co/B7zH5NHcK4 #RG14 "Over a very short period of time he shot down a number of German airplanes and created quite some terror among the German pilots." Piloting his Morane-Saulnier, Garros' first victory came at the beginning of April 1915 and two more quickly followed. But his luck ran out later that month when a clogged fuel line forced him to crash-land behind enemy lines. Captured by the Germans, Garros remained a prisoner of war for almost three years before escaping in February 1918. Short-lived success Undeterred by the prospect of another incarceration or worse, Garros was soon airborne again, this time piloting a SPAD biplane. The pioneering airman showed he had lost none of his shooting skills as he downed his fourth German plane of the war in early October 1918. But it wasn't long before disaster struck. On October 5, a day before his 30th birthday and five weeks before Armistice Day on November 11, Garros was shot down and killed near the French town of Vouziers, close to the Belgian border. His demise came at the hands of a German airman flying a Fokker D VII plane fitted with a synchronization gear that stopped bullets hitting the propeller altogether. Designed by Dutch aircraft manufacturer Anthony Fokker, the device was far more efficient than Garros' earlier deflector plates and caused numerous deaths of allied airmen when introduced in mid-1915 -- prompting the British press to coin the phrase the "Fokker Scourge." Today in 1888 - birth of Roland Garros, famous French aviator & fighter pilot from #Reunion #Island http://t.co/uqPfY92VRa #laReunion #TDIH Garros had, it seems, become a victim of the rapid progress that he had started. "What you see in the First World War is this laboratory or crucible for development of what we know as air power today -- from a tactical/mission perspective as well as a technical design perspective," Jakab says. "A guy like Garros was one of the early pioneers of developing a tactic in an aircraft-specific role. But ideas of formation flying and how squadrons would tactically engage had evolved after he was in prison. "So when he came out, he was still pursuing fighter aviation like he had done in 1915, but it was a different ball game by that point," Jakab said. "He was surpassed by the war and by this technique that he had pioneered. But he was a great war hero." It was a status reaffirmed a decade after his death when a new stadium built to host the international teams tennis tournament now known as the Davis Cup was named in Garros' honor. After beating the U.S. at Philadelphia's Germantown Cricket Club in 1927, France, led by the "Four Musketeers" (Jean Borotra, Jacques Brugnon, Henri Cochet and Rene Lacoste) went on to win five consecutive Davis Cup titles at the new stadium in Paris' 16th arrondissement beginning in 1928 -- the same year the French Open was first held at the clay-court venue. Pre-war records Garros' high-standing among the French public wasn't built solely on his efforts during the war. Prior to 1914, he had been a highly successful member of a new burgeoning aircraft community which had rapidly grown in the wake of the Wright Brothers' (Wilbur and Orville) first powered flight at Outer Banks, North Carolina in December 1903. "A lot of people don't realize how much aeronautical activity was going on before the First World War," says Jakab. France was at the heart of this development, Jakab says, noting Louis Bleriot's first crossing of the English Channel in an airplane in July 1909 which was followed a month later by the world's first air meet at Reims in the Champagne-Ardenne region. "It took place over a two-week period and upwards of 200,000 people came out to see the flying," Jakab says. Call it @RafaelNadal's #gameface #RG14 pic.twitter.com/nYYIoJ91wA "This was not an obscure event and by 1910, '11, '12 you have the foundation of an aircraft industry in Europe not just in France, but the UK, Italy, Germany and Russia." As the FFT exhibition notes, Garros was inspired to take up flying after attending the Reims event and it wasn't long before he was making a name for himself. In 1912, two years after making his first flight, he won the prestigious Circuit de Anjou race before becoming the first man to fly across the Mediterranean Sea on September 23 the following year, as Flight International magazine reported. "Tuesday last saw Roland Garros achieve his ambition of flying across the Mediterranean from France to Africa... "Leaving the Frejus Aerodrome at St. Raphael at 5.45 a.m., and steering straight across the Mediterranean, over Sardinia, he made a safe landing in Bizerta, in Tunisia at 1.45 p.m. The distance between the two points is about 460 miles, and after his eight hours flight there still remained in the tank five liters of petrol." "The 1913 flight across the Mediterranean was his great flight," Jakab says. "From a pre-war point of view, he was one of the key pioneering aviators who established the viability of the airplane as a technology in terms of these long-term flights." These days, the only aviators you are likely to find at Roland Garros stadium are pairs of sunglasses perched on patron's noses court side at Philippe Chatrier (who actually was a former FFT president). The pilot's story may be lost on most of them, but 100 years after the Great War began, Garros' fighting spirit lives on in more frivolous forms of battle. "Garros had two big qualities -- a lot of courage and a lot of determination," Guittard says. "Those two words are perfect for our champions." The "Moi... Roland Garros" exhibition can be seen at the FFT museum at Roland Garros stadium. Entry is free of charge to ticket-holders during the tournament.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/30/living/1986-spelling-bee-winner/index.html	living	National contest isn't bee-all and end-all - CNN.com	2013/05/30	Thursday May 30 01:38:46 EDT 2013	Editor's note: Jon Pennington won the 1986 National Spelling Bee. He lives in Minneapolis with his wife and two dogs. This piece was originally published in 2013. (CNN) -- I've always lived in a world of letters and alphabets. One of my earliest recollections is memorizing every line and curve of the ABC's on a baby blanket my grandparents gave me. I learned to read at an early age, but my favorite books were dictionaries. I wanted no plot, no narrative, just the onrush of one word after another. This obsessive attention to letters and orthography led me to victory at the 1986 National Spelling Bee. My winning word: odontalgia, which means toothache. Winning the Bee can lead to all kinds of aches -- headaches, stomachaches, growing pains. But it can also be the time of a young kid's life. If you were to ask me whether the National Spelling Bee leads to obsessive levels of competition, I would say "absolutely." But that's not necessarily a bad thing. The same obsessions that lead a child to win a spelling bee are not much different from the obsessions that might someday lead a scientist to the cure for cancer. The agony and ecstasy of the National Spelling Bee What is great about the National Spelling Bee is that it provides a safe space for prepubescent kids to meet peers with a similar obsession for words. When I was in junior high, public schools tolerated a much higher background level of bullying than they do in the post-Columbine era, but when I was at the Spelling Bee, I fit in. Yes, I won the championship, and I am always grateful for that, but ironically, the downside to being champion is that it gives you a lot less time to socialize with your fellow word nerds. People ask me what it was like to win the National Spelling Bee, but I mostly remember the lights and flashbulbs of the press that followed my victory. They were so blindingly bright to me I eventually borrowed my mother's tinted sunglasses to cut down on the glare. I was flown from Washington to New York to appear on "Good Morning America," then flown back almost as quickly to shake hands with President Ronald Reagan in the White House Rose Garden. Then it was on to "The Tonight Show" with Johnny Carson. (For those of you younger folk, Johnny Carson is the late night TV guy before the other late night TV guy before Jimmy Fallon.) Carson was extremely personable to me and seemed to prefer hosting "ordinary" guests like a spelling bee winner or some farmer who won a Guinness World Record for growing the world's largest pumpkin instead of going through yet another interview with a movie star trying to plug his or her latest film. National Spelling Bee fast facts After appearing on "The Tonight Show," I talked less and less about winning the National Spelling Bee. I would occasionally get ribbed for it at school (or asked to spell an off-color word or two), but generally, it was less of a bother to let it fade into the background. I barely told anybody about it in college. In fact, a schoolmate only found out after finding my name listed as a spelling bee champion in an old copy of the World Almanac. When I watch the telecasts of the National Spelling Bee today, I'm impressed at the increasing level of competition that the kids bring to the bee each year. I won the more than 25 years ago, but today, I'm not sure I could break out of the top 50. One of these days, a kid will memorize every single word in Webster's Third New International, and the judges may be forced to coin new words on the spot to declare a champion. Until then, I'm not only astounded by the quality of competition, but also uplifted by the spirit of fair play and mutual support that the spellers display to each other. When a competitor is crowned the National Spelling Bee victor this year, the champion will embark on a similar journey to the one I took nearly 30 years ago. If I could impart any wisdom to the winner, it would be this: Life doesn't begin or end with the spelling bee. It just gives you some wonderful tales to tell along the way. Do you remember what word knocked you out of a spelling bee? Share your memories in the comments, on Twitter @CNNschools or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/mh370-sound-search/index.html	world	Did ocean device capture Flight MH370's end? - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 09:20:18 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Was the sound of Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370 striking the water captured by ocean devices used to listen for signs of nuclear blasts? It's a long shot, but an Australian university is studying records from underwater listening devices in an effort to help find the missing plane. "One signal has been detected on several receivers that could be related to the crash," said Alec Duncan of Curtin University's Centre for Marine Science and Technology (CMST). Researchers are studying a very low frequency sound to see if it was "the impact of the aircraft on the water or the implosion of parts of the aircraft as it sank," Duncan said. "But (the source of the noise) is just as likely to be a natural event," he said. Low frequency signals can travel thousands of kilometers through water under favorable circumstances, Duncan said. But "at the moment (the sound) appears to be inconsistent with other data about the aircraft position," he said. Martin Dolan, the Chief Commissioner with the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), the organization leading the search into MH370 at the request of Malaysia, agreed with Duncans analysis of the sound. "We think that those detections may have been interesting from the point of view of the direction they came, but other characteristics make it unlikely that they are associated with MH370," he said. The ATSB first referenced these signals in a document posted on its website on Monday. The research is continuing, Duncan said, and investigators may release additional information about their findings in the coming days. As was the case with the Inmarsat satellite -- a communications satellite whose data was analyzed by Malaysia Airlines MH370 investigators as a navigational aide -- this study involves the use of technology for a purpose that it was not originally intended for. One of the devices, operated by Curtin University and located some 20 kilometers off Perth, is designed to listen to whales and other marine life. The other is for signs of underwater nuclear explosions, one of 11 operated worldwide by the U.N.-chartered Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) as part of the International Monitoring System. Early in the search for Malaysia Flight 370, the United Nations reported it had not detected any explosions or plane crashes on land or water from its sensors around the globe. But the recent efforts involve pairing CTBTO data with other sources to see what can be gleaned, officials said. "One can always be hopeful," said Mark Prior, a seismic acoustic analyst with the CTBTO. The CTBTO's hydro-acoustic stations detect low frequency sound in the 0-100 Hz range, and can't detect black box "pings" in the 30-40 kHz range, officials said. "It's possible (to detect a plane crash), but the circumstances that would allow it would have to be very particular," said Prior. Prior said some of those circumstances might include a sloping sea bed. Another possible scenario: the origin of the sound would need to be near the listening device. The CTBTO's system near Cape Leeuwin, the southwestern-most point of Australia, regularly captures signals of ice breaking noise from Antarctica and seismic activity from Indonesia, he said. "There are other scenarios that would allow (the hydrophones to detect a crash). But it's not certain if there was an impact we would detect it," Prior said. Attempts were made following the 2009 crash of Air France 447 in the southern Atlantic Ocean to see if underwater listening devices had detected the plane's impact. No data could be found. Years later, after the plane was located, CTBTO again checked its data, and still was not able to identify signals related to the crash.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/opinion/kohn-tv-women-60s-gidget/index.html	opinion	Opinion: How Gidget broke the rules - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 09:17:30 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- I can't imagine growing up in the '50s, certainly not as myself or any degree of myself that I am now. My strongest sense of the '50s comes from Betty Friedan and feminist critiques of the era. And June Cleaver. But the 1950s TV stereotypes of women as housewives in fancy dresses and high heels gave way to a much more interesting cast of characters when the '60s came along. In real life, there probably never was a family as picture perfect and problem free as the '50s Cleavers, but June Cleaver was certainly the archetype of her decade. As a child, I didn't quite know what I wanted to be when I grew up, but I knew who I didn't want to be. I didn't want to be June Cleaver. The dress. The hair. The pearls. The sense that she never had any fun, never broke the rules, possibly never even exhaled. Her entire existence circumscribed by her white picket fence.  I couldn't imagine being Donna Reed. Or the mom from "Father Knows Best." Or Harriet Nelson. None of them. But then along came Gidget. I still hadn't been born when the TV show "Gidget" premiered in the 1960s. In fact, my parents had just barely met. But years later, as a kid in the early 1980s, I would watch reruns of "Gidget." Finally, a TV woman I wanted to be. Smart. Independent. Even sarcastic at times. She went to school. She hung out outside the house. She even surfed. She was everything! As a little girl, I didn't realize all that had happened in the years between June Cleaver and Gidget Lawrence, everything that had changed in society to create a new era of culture that mirrored a new day in America, one in which the compulsion to be June Cleaver was eroded as a universe of Gidgets arose. Suddenly, Mary Tyler Moore and Marlo Thomas (from "That Girl"), independent women with careers, were on the scene. There was Agent 99 from "Get Smart" and Emma Peel from "The Avengers" --- not just career women, but spies. Who kicked ass! There was Samantha in "Bewitched," who had immense powers --- just like Jeannie, about whom I indeed dreamed. And most ground-breaking of all, there was "Julia," which featured the first African American character on network TV -- and she was a single mother! Nick at Night introduced me to the 1960s Technicolor menu of gender roles and role models unheralded in the narrow black-and-white confines of the 1950s. I could watch TV and see women with personalities and problems and potential. I was hooked. Of course, in hindsight, none of these shows was perfect. Elizabeth Montgomery's character Samantha in "Bewitched" was always apologizing for using her magic. Barbara Eden's character in "I Dream Of Jeannie" called the man whose house she lived in "master." And Gidget was always being scolded by her overly stern and moralizing father, who like many male characters in shows of that era, seemed designed as stand-ins for older men of the 1950s generation who were deeply wary of, if not downright resistant to, the equality of women. At the end of each episode of "Gidget," Sally Field would usually turn to the camera and announce the life lesson she'd learned, usually imparted by her father. So in a way, metaphorically, she was still bowing to and echoing unquestioned male authority and hegemony. But it was always Gidget who got the last word, who was the only one who could turn to us and speak to us directly. She was given that special, powerful voice.  And in the next episode, Gidget invariably broke the rules again. In the socially and politically tumultuous era of the 1960s, the message of "Gidget" and "Bewitched" and "I Dream Of Jeannie" and all these shows where the women kept getting in trouble was not that the rules were enforced by these throwback men, but that the women kept breaking them. Show after show after show, the women kept breaking the rules, testing the limits, crossing the line. That was the entire premise, the whole point. In the new era, there were strong and sassy women who would make their own rules. And we would watch them and fall in love with them and want to be them and find the rules to break in our own lives and in the world around us. For women and people of color and gay folks and anyone remotely not Ward Cleaver, the rules of the 1950s were at the very least limiting and in many cases ugly and violent. These were rules that needed to be broken. Gidget showed us how.  "Gidget" the TV show only lasted for one season, a tragedy from which my little 8-year-old rerun watching self would never fully recover from all those years later. And yet the social, cultural and political changes that 1960s TV women like Gidget helped both reflect and set in motion --- fortunately, those changes lasted for generations. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/opinion/liu-study-hispanics-favor-whiteness/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Is it better to be white? - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 09:25:24 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Eric Liu is the founder of Citizen University and the author of several books, including "The Gardens of Democracy" and "The Accidental Asian." He served as a White House speechwriter and policy adviser for President Bill Clinton. Follow him on Twitter @ericpliu. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- For all the complexity of our national complexion, Americans still too often think that white makes right. Consider a new study of census returns released by the Pew Research Center, which reportedly showed significant numbers of Hispanics are now identifying as white. Some news reports suggested that Hispanics, rather than solidifying a distinct ethnic identity and becoming the driving force of a "majority-minority" future, might instead try to be just the latest group of immigrants, such as Italians or Jews, to "become white." Such a shift, if it's real, has potentially big implications. Think about national politics, where the Republican Party plays to a shrinking, aging and increasingly anxious base of white voters. If large numbers of Hispanics were to start thinking of themselves as white, that could alter the calculations and rhetoric of the GOP. But it turns out such scenarios are at best premature. What the Pew study really reveals, when you read it closely, is just how confused we continue to be about race -- and how, even amidst this confusion, whiteness remains a dangerously malleable idea that Americans must deal with more candidly. Let's start with the three points of confusion that the Pew study revealed. First, and most basic, is a statement that has been repeated yet ignored so often that it's like the fine print in an ad: "Hispanics can be of any race." That means there are black, white, even Asian Hispanics. The label "Hispanic" -- meaning, "with origins or heritage in Spanish-speaking countries" -- was intended by the census to be a category of linguistic and ethnic heritage, not an official "race" of its own. Yet in recent decades, Hispanics or Latinos have indeed begun to forge a cross-cutting identity that can feel like a racial category (shorthanded as "brown") and is sometimes set beside the other major blocs of America's racial color grid. So Hispanics can be at once a race and not a race. It's no wonder that media coverage of Hispanics can be muddled. The second point of confusion is that the Pew study did not in fact find a Hispanic flight to whiteness. What it found was that growing numbers of Hispanics, when told by government forms that they were not a race unto themselves and that they had to choose a race, chose the category called "white." As the study authors noted, this reflected the convolutions and limits of the census forms (which are to change in 2020) at least as much any underlying yearning among Hispanics to be white. But this brings us to the third point of confusion, which is that to the extent that some Hispanics did in fact want to be seen as white rather than Hispanic, they were using the clumsy language of color to express the subtle reality of class. The Pew report indicated that the longer their families had been in America, the more likely Hispanics were to check the "white" box. This suggests that the way Americans say "upward mobility for immigrants" or "mainstream integration" is still too often "becoming white." Indeed, sometimes our national discourse on race proceeds as if it were all about groups of color vying to be acknowledged, while white people sit back and watch. The invention of panethnic categories such as "Latino" or "Asian American," categories that take on a racial life of their own, is in part a reaction to the white-norming of politics and pop culture. But it's also a time-tested, all-American tradition. For proof, look no further than the invention of the white race itself. The great waves of immigration in the 19th and 20th centuries -- to say nothing of the baroque rules of racial categorization in the slaveholding South -- showed that Americans have always been deviously flexible about deciding who gets to be white. At first the Irish weren't, then they were. Same with the Italians and Jews. In more recent times, Asian Americans who've achieved in visible ways have been granted "honorary white" status (wanted or not), while some people of color seeking middle-class success have been accused by their co-ethnics of "acting white" (whether they thought of it that way or not). The great risk, underscored by the reactions to the Pew study, is that we go on unthinkingly treating whiteness as the ideal and social baseline of American life. That's harmful because it subordinates people whose backgrounds aren't "white" and because it stunts the capacity of all people -- not least poor and working-class whites -- to name and reckon with class divides and inequality. I propose a better way of talking about what third- or fourth-generation Hispanics, or ambitious new arrivals in Chinatown, or resilient African American first-in-the-family college students are all doing. They're not becoming white. They're becoming American. And to become American is now a more colorful, complex and class-bound undertaking than it has ever been. Let's learn to see it that way. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/justice/california-killing-spree/index.html	crime	'Hell on Earth,' California killer's family says - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 09:41:56 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The killer's parents won't talk about him. That at least is what their friend told CNN on Thursday. Their thoughts are on the other six victims of Friday's killing spree in Santa Barbara, the friend said. Elliot Rodger, who fatally stabbed three and shot three others, himself was found dead with a gunshot wound to his head after crashing his black BMW. "We are crying in pain for the victims and their families. It breaks our hearts on a level we didn't think possible," Rodger's family said in a statement read by a family friend on "New Day." "The feeling of knowing that it was our son's actions that caused the tragedy can only be described as hell on Earth." In a 137-page document, not to mention videos and musings on social media, the 22-year-old Rodger hinted that years of rejection and jealousy led him to lash out against beautiful women and popular men. Simon Astaire, the family friend, shed some light on the kind of person that Rodger was. "As soon as you met him, he was unbearably reserved, self-contained, he seemed to merge into the walls," he told CNN. In one brief conversation, Rodger asked Astaire -- a novelist -- if writing was a lonely experience. Astaire described the process as "solitary," and Rodger replied with "I know what you mean," and turned away. "He seemed the loneliest person in the world," Astaire said. As the tragedy unfolded near the University of California, Santa Barbara, campus, Rodger's parents were putting the clues together that it might be their son who was involved. His mother received Rodger's manifesto, and after reading just four lines, she immediately went to YouTube to look at the videos her son had posted, Astaire said. She watched the first 20 seconds of a video titled "Retribution," and then called her ex-husband. Both got on the road toward Santa Barbara as the shooting was unfolding. The mother's fears were realized when she heard on the radio that a black BMW, like Rodger's, was involved. "It was the longest journey of their lives and I would suggest, everyone's nightmare," Astaire said. Among the victims were Rodger's three roommates -- Cheng Yuan Hong, 20; George Chen, 19; and Weihan "David" Wang, 20. Each was stabbed to death. But Rodger didn't stop there. He then embarked on a shooting rampage Friday night, killing two young women -- Katherine Cooper, 22, and Veronika Weiss, 19, both members of the Delta Delta Delta sorority. He then went into a deli and killed UCSB junior Christopher Martinez, 20, who was getting a sandwich. Martinez's father, Richard Martinez, has publicly called for stricter gun control laws. One of the parents of a child killed in the Sandy Hook school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, wrote an open letter to Richard Martinez. The tragedy of losing a child to gun violence has made them part of the same extended family, Mark Barden wrote. "My heart breaks for you because I know just a little about the long road ahead of you," he wrote, encouraging Richard Martinez to continue being an advocate for gun safety regulations. "You will find your own path down this difficult road," Barden wrote. "But know that we are here for you and all of you who have been touched by this tragedy. Together we can and will build a safer world for all our children." CNN's Chris Cuomo, Greg Botelho and Holly Yan contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/world/400-years-of-beautiful/index.html	world	11 beautiful globes from the past 400 Years - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 06:26:18 EDT 2014	(Wired) -- To look at an ancient globe is to look at the Earth as it was seen by the people of another time. It reflects their understanding of the continents and seas, and it captures political divisions that have long since shifted. Even the typography and colors of a globe are indicative of the time and place of its origin, says Sylvia Sumira, a London-based conservator of ancient globes. Often, it's a thing of remarkable craftsmanship and beauty. "If you go into a room and there's a globe, your attention is immediately drawn to it," Sumira said. In her lavishly illustrated new book, Globes: 400 years of exploration, navigation, and power, Sumira traces the history and making of globes and showcases dozens of fine examples drawn largely from the collection of the British Library. Contrary to the popular misconception that nobody knew the Earth was round before Columbus, the ancient Greeks described the making of globes (in verse, no less) in the third century B.C. The oldest surviving globe dates back to 150 A.D. But they really took off between about 1500 and 1900, and it's this period that's the focus of Globes. Read more: 5 new record-breaking rides that will terrify you this Summer There are records of globes being brought on ships during the age of exploration, but they probably weren't used for navigation, Sumira says. For one thing, any globe that's small enough to be brought on board would have to be scaled down to the point of being useless for charting a course on the high seas. "They're more a symbol of navigation than a tool for navigation," she said. In the book, she writes that in the 17th century, globes were sold as "handsome objects of status and prestige to a comfortable merchant class." Not that ancient globes don't convey some useful information. Much of it is contained in the horizon ring that surrounds many of them. Concentric circles printed or engraved on the ring indicate the degrees of the compass, the months of the year, zodiac signs, and sometimes information about winds. They can be used, for example, to determine the sunrise and sunset on a given day of the year, Sumira says. "Most of the globes were like little calculating machines." Read more: Striking photos of the rooms where VIPs shape history Several globes in the book come in pairs: one terrestrial, one celestial. "The constellations were very much used for navigational purposes," Sumira says, so being able to study pairs like this would have been very instructive for mariners in training. The celestial globes sometimes look like someone let the animals out of the zoo: the stars that make up a constellation are overlaid on the figure that gives it its name  a lion for Leo, a big bear for Ursa Major and so on. Getting your bearings with the celestial globes is a little tricky. It helps if you pretend you're God, looking down at the heavens from on high. The earth would be a dot inside the center of the globe. From this view, the constellations are mirror images of how they appear from Earth. Among Sumira's favorites are the pocket globes. "They're just delightful little things," she said. The smallest is just 1.5 inches in diameter. Many come in a wood or leather case that opens up to reveal a terrestrial globe that can be taken out. The concave surface of the case often contains a matching celestial globe. Read more from WIRED: Why are LEGO sets expensive? Absurd creature of the week: The half-ton giant freshwater stingray with a 15-Inch poison barb Attention Hipsters: The Jurassic Park soundtrack is being released on vinyl  Subscribe to WIRED magazine for less than $1 an issue and get a FREE GIFT! Click here! Copyright 2011 Wired.com. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/meast/pakistani-honor-killing/index.html	world	Stoned Pakistani woman's husband: Family demanded money to stay alive - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 09:57:46 EDT 2014	Islamabad, Pakistan (CNN) -- The husband of a Pakistani woman stoned to death for refusing to participate in an arranged marriage told CNN her family had demanded 100,000 rupees if the couple wanted to stay alive. Husband Mohammad Iqbal said he didn't have the money, which equals about $1,000. Farzana Parveen, who was three months pregnant, was beaten to death with bricks Tuesday in the eastern city of Lahore by a group of about 20 people, including her brothers, father and cousin, police said. Police are searching for the killers in this all-too-common crime. According to a report published in April by the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, 869 women in the country were victims last year in "honor killings," so named because the woman's actions are considered to have brought shame on her family. Most honor killings occur in rural areas. Tuesday's attack was unusual because it happened in a public area of a big city. Iqbal, in an interview with CNN, said Parveen and he were supposed to marry, with the family's approval, last year. He was a widower and neighbor. As part of the arrangement, Iqbal said, he'd given Parveen's father 80,000 rupees and gold jewelry. Last December, Parveen's mother died and her father and brothers changed their minds about the marriage, Iqbal said. The family decided Parveen, 25, who came from a village in Punjab, should marry a cousin, police said. Parveen and Iqbal eloped and were married January 7 in a court ceremony. He said she liked the color white and that she was a "beautiful and good wife." "We were happy," he said, though they were constantly worried about their safety. "She loved us," said Aurengzeb, Parveen's stepson. "She always made the most delicious meat stew for us." The marriage enraged her family, Iqbal said, and they demanded he pay them 100,000 rupees to let the couple stay alive. Iqbal, a farmer in the village in Jurranwala, Punjab, didn't have the money. The family had challenged Parveen's marriage to Iqbal in the courts, accusing him of abducting her. The attack took place Tuesday as she was on her way from her lawyer's office to the high court in Lahore, where she was expected to make a declaration that she had married Iqbal of her own volition. One family member made a noose of rough cloth around her neck while her brothers smashed bricks into her skull, said Mushtaq Ahmed, a police official, citing the preliminary report on the killing. Police said they had arrested Parveen's father, whose name they gave only as Azeem. They said he had admitted to the killing and expressed no regret. Senior Police officer Umar Cheema told CNN police are conducting raids in areas near the village to find the killers. Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has requested Punjab Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif submit a report on this incident. Iqbal said nobody helped when the stoning began. People just stood around and watched. Farzana Bari, a human rights activist based in Islamabad, said in many cases people outside the family don't step in to protect the victim "because it's a private matter." Bari said the number of honor killings is probably much higher than studies show because many families don't report the killings. The killers often avoid prosecution, Bari said. Under an Islamic element of Pakistani law, known as the law of Diyat, the family of a victim is allowed to forgive the perpetrator, according to the human rights commission's report. So-called honor killings often originate from tribal traditions in Pakistan but are not a part of Islam.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/sport/tennis/nadal-french-open-tennis/index.html	iSport	Rafael Nadal avoids upset bug at French Open - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 10:10:19 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Rafael Nadal avoided the upset bug at the French Open -- and that was wholly predictable. Only once in nine previous editions of the clay-court grand slam has the Spaniard tasted defeat and the eight-time champion moved into the third round in Paris on Thursday by beating promising Austrian Dominic Thiem. Thiem has scored wins over grand slam winners Andy Murray and Stan Wawrinka in 2014, with his ranking climbing more than 200 spots in the past 12 months to a career-high 57th. But world No. 1 Nadal swept past the 20-year-old -- who shares a coach with flamboyant Latvian Ernests Gulbis -- 6-2 6-2 6-3 as the sun briefly shone in the French capital. Nadal fended off a break point in the opening game, then cruised for the rest of the first two sets before reversing a 3-1 deficit in the third. "He's a future star, 100 %," Nadal told the crowd. "The level of his ball is so high. He has everything to become a big champion. "Today I played a solid match. I know Dominic is a dangerous opponent so I came on court knowing that if I wasn't playing well, I'm going to be in trouble." Nadal was back on the main Philippe Chatrier stadium, too, after playing his opener on the secondary Suzanne Lenglen court, a scheduling decision world No. 11 John Isner called "bizarre." "It's my favorite court," Nadal said of the center court. Even though he was expected to overcome Thiem, Nadal must have been slightly relieved. Besides Thiem potentially posing a threat, several big names have exited the tournament already. They include women's No. 1 and defending champion, Serena Williams, second-seed Li Na and Wawrinka -- the man Nadal lost to in the Australian Open final. Elsewhere, 2013 finalist David Ferrer, rejuvenated former French Open semifinalist Jelena Jankovic and Sloane Stephens -- the highest-ranked U.S. player in the women's draw after Williams' exit -- all advanced in straight sets. More to follow... Read: Double blow for Williams sisters Read: French Open's forgotten hero  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/opinion/castellanos-va-obama/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Obama is responsible for VA mess, but it may not be his fault - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 10:30:32 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Alex Castellanos, a Republican strategist, is the founder of Purple Strategies and NewRepublican.org. You can follow him on Twitter @alexcast. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Laying the blame for Veterans Administration failures at the feet of a man who pledged, six long years ago, to fix those problems is inviting. During his 2008 White House transition, president-in-waiting Barack Obama promised to "make the VA a leader of national health care reform so that veterans get the best care possible." In his own eyes at least, this President remains unstained by that failure. Shame remains unknown to this unnecessarily confident man. Now, Obama not only tells us he is shocked to find that the crisis he has ignored is still there, he also insists, "I will not tolerate it." If you can't fix the problem, of course, fix the politics. "No-Drama Obama" often pretends to share our anger to defuse it. His performance art, however, has grown obvious and condescending. When he throws vacant words like candy to the masses, he only fuels our anger. Still, as satisfying as it might be, we shouldn't assign blame entirely to our commander in chief. For decades, Democrats, Republicans and even veterans -- including Gen. Eric Shinseki, a man of unquestionable commitment and proven leadership skills -- have tried to reform the VA's endless bureaucracy. At best, some have transformed the terrible to the merely awful. At worst, they have all failed wretchedly. Perhaps the problem is neither a lack of will or brains, nor a shortage of effort or good intentions. Perhaps they have not reformed the VA because it cannot be reformed. Even the most devoted instructor can't teach a hammerlike old bureaucracy to be anything but the dull, blunt instrument it is. When the modern VA arose, as veterans came home from World War II, health care was simpler. We were a decade from pacemakers, two from hip replacements and balloon catheters, three from the miracle of an MRI. Medicare had not been imagined, much less genomic testing, treatments for traumatic brain injuries and cures for half of all cancer patients. Since then, caring for human health, like everything else in our lives, has become infinitely more complex. Today, our health care needs are intimate, intricate and intensely personal. Imagine, however, that your health care was managed and delivered by a machine, an old factorylike mechanism composed, not of cogs and gears and smokestacks, but of bureaucrats, regulations and mountainous paper work. Today's Veterans Administration, with 300,000 employees, is exactly such an industrial-age contraption. It's the second largest bureaucracy in our federal government. The VA is a glorified assembly line that excels at enforcing standardization, not delivering compassion, innovation, or personalized service. It is built to dispense soul-crushing conformity. Confronted with providing services that require originality, adaptation and sensitivity, the VA is lost. On what form does a bureaucracy measure compassion, originality, or the respect a veteran has earned? And the worse the VA bureaucracy performs, the angrier all of us become -- and we demand even more regulatory government action. The leviathan that is the VA grows larger as bloat is piled upon excess. In a wonderful new book, "The Fourth Revolution: The Global Race to Reinvent the State," authors John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge note that enlarging the bureaucratic inadequacies of the modern industrial state are unlikely to improve it. Instead, they found that fixing our government's bloated bureaucracy with even "more state" inevitably leads to failure on an apocalyptic level: "Ninety-four percent of federal IT projects over the past ten years have failed -- more than half were delayed or over budget and 41.4 percent failed completely." They note that, "The Pentagon spent over $3 billion on two health-care systems that never worked properly." The VA is single-payer, government-run health care, financed by government, and delivered through government-run hospitals. Liberal collectors of old social antiquities like Paul Krugman cannot let go of it. Krugman confesses, "Yes, this is 'socialized medicine.' ... But it works, and suggests what it will take to solve the troubles of U.S. health care more broadly." Can the fix for the most outdated health care system in America really be more of the same? The breach between what we fund and what veterans get from the VA is getting larger. The gap between our good intentions and the help those in need actually receive is growing broader. It is time for something fresh. Our old federal government's inability to do what it promises is one reason it is less popular than King George III during the American Revolution and Congress, on a good day, has a favorability rating of approximately 9%. Instead of blaming Obama, I'd urge Republicans and Democrats to propose real change: Transform our old, closed bureaucratic VA system to an open health care system. It's time veterans who don't want to travel five hours or wait for months were allowed equal access to all the health care available to the rest of us. The most critical decisions about a veteran's health shouldn't be made the old way: top-down, politically and artificially, by a pulseless bureaucracy that reports to Washington. Those decisions should be made naturally and bottom-up, closer to life, in the sacred space between doctors and those who have offered the highest possible sacrifice to our nation. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/gwyneth-paltrow-war-online-comments/index.html	entertainment	Gwyneth Paltrow makes people mad -- again - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 10:53:12 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Gwyneth Paltrow may have given more ammunition to "the enemy." The actress has come under fire for likening the impact of negative online comments to being in a war, according to an interview she gave to Re/Code. While discussing those trolls who make nasty, anonymous comments online, Paltrow called the effect of their insults "dehumanizing." "You come across (online comments) about yourself and about your friends, and it's a very dehumanizing thing," Paltrow said, according to the interview. "It's almost like how, in war, you go through this bloody, dehumanizing thing, and then something is defined out of it. My hope is, as we get out of it, we'll reach the next level of conscience." That bit of introspection did not go over well. Cindy McCain, wife of Sen. John McCain -- a former prisoner of war -- tweeted, "Gweneth Paltrow is a joke. Her life is like taking bullets for a soldier. What a joke! My 2 sons serving in the military should talk to her." She further tweeted, "Perhaps Gweneth Paltrow should go out on patrol with some soldiers. Kind of like a Red Carpet in her mind I guess!" Gweneth Paltrow is a joke. Her life is like taking bullets for a soldier. What a joke! My 2 sons serving in the military should talk to her. Perhaps Gweneth Paltrow should go out on patrol with some soldiers. Kind of like a Red Carpet in her mind I guess! It's not the first time the star has stirred strife with her comments. In March she faced criticism after she told E! it was "much harder" for her as both a mother and a celebrity. "I think it's different when you have an office job, because it's routine and, you know, you can do all the stuff in the morning and then you come home in the evening," she said. "When you're shooting a movie, they're like, 'We need you to go to Wisconsin for two weeks,' and then you work 14 hours a day and that part of it is very difficult. I think to have a regular job and be a mom is not as, of course there are challenges, but it's not like being on set." Gwyneth Paltrow wants to end 'the mommy wars' Paltrow later defended herself in a blog entry on her Goop site. "As the mommy wars rage on, I am constantly perplexed and amazed by how little slack we cut each other as women," she wrote. In June 2012, the actress set off a conversation about race and sensitivity after she tweeted "Ni**as in Paris for real" while attending a Jay Z and Kanye West concert in Paris. Paltrow is friends with Jay Z and the tweet referred to a song title from the two rappers, but many took offense at her use of the racial slur. Obsessions: Gwyneth Paltrow is having a moment  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/28/opinion/segal-millennials-struggle/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Deck is stacked against millennials - CNN.com	2014/05/28	Wednesday May 28 07:49:14 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Matthew Segal is the co-founder and president of OurTime.org, an advocacy organization for young Americans, and the host of "OurTime with Matthew Segal" on SiriusXM POTUS, a new series produced by and for millennial listeners. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the writer. (CNN) -- There is a Washington adage that if you don't help write the menu, you might end up on it. And make no mistake: The classes of 2014 that walked across graduation stages recently just provided more young people available to be served for lunch. Despite positive news about America's reduced 6.3% unemployment rate in April, it turns out the jobless rate for 18- to 29-year-olds is 9.1%. If you include "discouraged workers," or those who have given up looking for work, unemployment for 18- to 29-year-olds is 15.5%. The unemployment rate for young African-Americans is even worse: 16.6%, and if you add discouraged workers, it's a whopping 23.3%. With job opportunities scarce, employers feel little pressure to raise wages. Unpaid internships are pervasive, and the allure of "experience" in their chosen field is enough to entice eager young people to work for free, unless their parents can't afford to subsidize them. Those young people must either accumulate additional debt while working unpaid internships or look toward minimum wage positions, which are becoming more the norm, and less the teenage avocation to score some extra cash. According to the Economic Policy Institute, 88% of workers making the minimum wage are 20 years old or more, and about 4 in 10 are college graduates or have some level of college education. The system is unfortunately stacked against these low earners, because without savings, the ability to buy goods that can appreciate in wealth -- such as a house -- are negligible. According to the Census Bureau, about 1 in 3 Americans under 35 own homes, dropping by 4.2% from 2007 to 2013. As James Hauser, a 28-year-old college graduate who works in Washington, told me: "I am debating for my next paycheck whether to make a credit card payment or replace my current pair of shoes. I take public transit for most things, so I walk a lot." Hauser, like many people his age, feels stunted without assets: "My parents were already in a house with three children when they were my age," he said. Of all the economic trends holding back America's young people, perhaps the most disturbing is the soaring cost of a post-high school diploma. So many young people have been sold the imperative nature of a higher education. "I ask every American to commit to at least one year or more of higher education or career training," President Obama said in February 2009. "This can be community college or a four-year school, vocational training or an apprenticeship. But whatever the training may be, every American will need to get more than a high school diploma." Although the President's goal is a noble one, the cost of a college degree has risen by 1,120% since 1978 -- far outpacing increases in food, health care and housing prices. As a result, we have more than $1.1 trillion in student loan debt, and 7 million Americans are in default on their student loans, meaning they are more than 270 days late on a payment. "With almost a fourth of borrowers in default, we are creating a generation with nothing left to lose," said Natalia Abrams, executive director of Student Debt Crisis, a national advocacy organization. Hauser also struggles with debt. "It's hard to think about, especially with the hundreds of dollars of interest that accumulates each month." To make matters worse, there are few protections for student borrowers under U.S. bankruptcy law, which is not true for credit card debt, mortgage debt or even gambling debt. To file for bankruptcy you must prove "undue hardship," which, in essence, translates to being severely disabled. College students who had taken out loans graduate with an average $25,000 debt because of rising tuition costs. And the government is profiting tens of billions of dollars from federal student loan interest rates, which are projected to climb even more (up to 10.5% for graduate students) over the next five years. Not surprisingly, faith in government is vanishing. According to a recent Harvard Institute of Politics survey, only 1 in 5 young people trust the federal government, and most pernicious of all, only 23% of young people are positive they will vote in November. "There's an erosion of trust in the individuals and institutions that make government work," said John Della Volpe, the Harvard pollster. "Now we see the lowest level of interest in any election we've measured since 2000."  While it is easy to empathize with young people's frustration in government, abstaining from the political process is arguably the worst move to make. Because politicians assume that young people don't vote, funding for job creation, national service and education is on the chopping block. The class of 2014 must confront this reality: discounting Washington as tone deaf and ineffective seems fair enough, but it will only get worse if we sit on the sidelines.  Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/thailand-coup/index.html	world	Thai military releases former interim PM days after coup - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 11:16:43 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Former interim Thai Prime Minister Niwatthamrong Boonsongpaisan is among the latest batch of people that the military has released following last week's coup, a military officer said Thursday. Also among the 31 people recently released was former Thai Foreign Minister Surapong Tovichakchaikul, Col. Sirichan Ngathong told reporters. The military had summoned, and in some cases detained, scores of political officials and other prominent figures after the May 22 coup, which the military carried out after months of unrest that had destabilized the elected government and caused outbursts of deadly violence in Bangkok.. But the sudden intervention by the armed forces -- the latest in a series of coups that have punctuated modern Thai history -- has been criticized by human rights activists and foreign governments, including the United States. READ: Thai general warns protesters after announcing royal endorsement READ: Thai military: Think before you tweet  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/showbiz/tv/community-hulu-ew/index.html	entertainment	Could 'Community' be revived on Hulu? - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 11:54:05 EDT 2014	(EW.com) -- Greendale may not have closed its doors for good after all: Hulu is currently in talks with Sony Pictures TV for a sixth season of the recently cancelled "Community," a source close to the show tells EW. (Deadline first reported the news.) Sony and Hulu aren't commenting, and another source stressed caution about such a deal, but a proposed plan would likely include a 13-episode new season of the community college meta-comedy, with creator Dan Harmon in the fold. If by chance an agreement were reached, it would push the show past the 100-episode milestone (it's at 97), and, of course, bring it one crucial step closer to fulfilling fans' rally cries of "six seasons and a movie." EW: 'Community' canceled  Hulu is a logical destination for the show, as it already owns the exclusive digital rights to the "Community's" first five seasons. (The off-network rights belong to Comedy Central.) The streaming service is committed to expanding its original programming, which currently includes shows like The Awesomes, Deadbeat and East Los High, as well as Casey Wilson's upcoming Real Housewives parody The Hotwives of Orlando, but original episodes of Community would put HuluPlus  with its six million subscribers  on the map in a bigger way, much like the revival of Arrested Development did for Netflix. Earlier this month, NBC officially cut bait on "Community," whose fifth season averaged 3.8 million viewers and a 1.6 rating in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic, including DVR playback. Harmon has kept expectations in check about the possibility of the show  which had made scoring a last-minute renewal from NBC an annual rite  finding a second life elsewhere. Responding to the cancellation news on his blog, he said he was open to making more episodes ("I'm not going to be the guy who recancels cancelled Community") but also noted: "[T]here are lots of reasons a Community resurrection could be difficult. So be prepared for that." See the original story at EW.com.   CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/politics/shinseki-va-democrats/index.html	politics	Shinseki expendable in election year - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 12:17:47 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- The Democratic dam has burst. It started Wednesday afternoon when Mark Udall became the first Democrat in the Senate to call for embattled Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki to resign. Udall was soon joined by other members of the chamber, including John Walsh of Montana, an appointee, Kay Hagan of North Carolina, Al Franken of Minnesota and Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire. What all have in common is that they're running this November for six more years in Washington, and other than Franken, they all face challenging contests in an already difficult midterm climate for Democrats. Joining them were a handful of House Democrats, including Rep. Bruce Braley of Iowa. He's the party's hope for keeping the seat of retiring Sen. Tom Harkin in Democratic hands. Weathering controversies from the IRS to the NSA to Obamacare, the last thing Democrats running for their political lives need is another scandal. The political dam burst a couple of hours after a preliminary report from the VA Inspector General's office said that at least 1,700 military veterans waiting to see a doctor were never scheduled for an appointment and were never placed on a wait list at the Veterans Affairs medical center in Phoenix. The VA controversy has mushroomed since CNN first reported last November on allegations of alarming shortcomings within the VA medical care system that potentially have had deadly consequences in dozens of cases. The most disturbing and striking problems emerged in Arizona last month, with sources revealing to CNN details of a secret waiting list. According to the sources, at least 40 American veterans died in Phoenix while waiting for care at the VA there. Richard Griffin, the acting inspector general, continues to investigate the matter, but his initial findings took the controversy to a new level -- an independent finding of serious problems around the treatment of veterans that appear to be national in scope. Over the past couple of weeks Shinseki has come under pressure to resign from many Republican lawmakers and candidates, and that continued on Wednesday. And Democrats outside Washington stumping for Senate seats in three red states -- Alison Lundergan Grimes in Kentucky, Michelle Nunn in Georgia, and Natalie Tennant in West Virginia -- recently joined the chorus. But Democratic incumbents were waiting for the VA watchdog to speak, and now that he has, they no longer are holding out. "The inspector general's preliminary report makes it clear that the systemic problems at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs are so entrenched that they require new leadership to be fixed," Udall said in his statement. The announcements come as the Democrats try to hold on to their 55-45 majority in the Senate (53 Democrats and two independents who caucus with the party). The party's defending 21 of the 36 seats up in November, with half of those Democratic-held seats in red or purple states. The smaller midterm electorate traditionally tends to favor the GOP. Add to that a climate that favors the Republicans, due to the sluggish economic recovery, President Barack Obama's low approval ratings, continued strong opposition by conservatives to the federal health care law and the so-called "six-year-itch," which traditionally plagues the party that controls the White House during a president's second term. "This is a no-brainer for congressional Democrats: It's likely a matter of when, not if, for Shinseki given the clear failure in oversight, and it's important to get in front of that. This allows Democrats to show independence on a substantive issue," said a Democratic strategist and former official in the Obama White House, who asked to remain anonymous to speak more freely. Democratic strategist and CNN contributor Paul Begala, a longtime senior political adviser to Bill and Hillary Clinton, said the Democratic calls for the VA secretary to resign look like "a cry for strong, dramatic action. General Shinseki did not cause the problem -- senators know that. But in the wake of the IG report more and more folks are calling for Shinseki's ouster." But Republican strategist Kevin Madden thinks the damage has already been done. "It's a sign of just how bipartisan the frustration with the Obama administration's incompetence has become," said Madden, a CNN contributor who was a top adviser in Mitt Romney's 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns. "The VA scandal just affirms an already existing judgment that a majority of voters have made about President Obama's poor performance," Madden add. "He's not meeting even minimum standards of efficiency when it comes to managing his own administration and, as a result, his performance rating will take a hit and so will his party," Madden added. And GOP consultant Brian Walsh said the moves by the Democratic lawmakers may have come too late. "From Obamacare, to the war on coal, to now the VA, Democrats facing voters this year are working feverishly to separate themselves from the failed leadership of (Senate Majority Leader) Harry Reid and President Obama. The problem is that for the last two years, all of them voted in lockstep in support of their agenda and all of them will have to account for that in November," said Walsh, who served as National Republican Senatorial Committee communications director the past two election cycles. The Veterans Affairs scandal's been a major issue on the campaign trail over the past couple of weeks. And on Wednesday, it also became front and center in the campaign ad wars. Crossroads GPS, the non-profit sister organization to American Crossroads, a leading pro-GOP outside group which was co-founded and steered by Karl Rove, went up with a television commercial in Alaska that's critical of Sen. Mark Begich over his reaction to the growing controversy. Begich is considered one of the most vulnerable Democratic senators running for re-election this year "A national disgrace. Veterans died waiting for care that never came. Senator Mark Begich sits on the Veterans Affairs Committee. His response? If there's a problem, they need to fix it. If there's a problem?" said the narrator in the spot, which was the first major ad to focus on the scandal. The VA scandal is also in a new ad attacking another vulnerable Democratic, Sen. Mark Pryor of Arkansas. The spot by Rep. Tom Cotton, the GOP challenger in the race, hits Pryor for what it says is his inaction in dealing with the controversy. "What did Mark Pryor do? Nothing," said the narrator in the online spot. Neither Begich or Pryor have yet to call on Shinseki to step down. While Republicans see the scandal as a political gift, Begala isn't sure just how much the issue will resonate come November. "The economy is going to drive the mid-term elections more than the VA scandal," Begala added.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/health/cdc-measles/index.html	health	CDC: Highest number of U.S. measles cases since at least 2001 - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 12:05:17 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The number of measles cases in the United States so far this year has risen to 288, the highest number for one year since at least 2001, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Thursday. This also is the largest number of measles cases that the country reported in the first five months of a year since 1994, according to the CDC. "Ninety percent of all measles cases in the United States were in people who were not vaccinated or whose vaccination status was unknown," the CDC said in a news release. The 288 cases were reported in 18 states from January 1 to May 23, the CDC said. Serious complications and death may result from measles, which is highly contagious. CNN's Elizabeth Cohen contributed to this report 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/africa/nigeria-boko-haram/index.html	world	Boko Haram raids Nigerian villages, killing 35, officials say - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 12:45:02 EDT 2014	Kano, Nigeria (CNN) -- Boko Haram insurgents killed 35 people in coordinated early morning raids on three villages in Nigeria's northeastern state of Borno, a military source and residents said, the latest deadly attacks by the militant group. Dozens of Boko Haram gunmen dressed in military uniforms raided Gumushi, Amuda and Arbokko Wednesday in all-terrain vans and on motorcycles, opening fire on residents and torching homes with Molotov cocktails. At least 26 people were killed in Gumushi alone, a military officer in Maiduguri said on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about the incidents. "The insurgents hurled petrol bombs into homes, setting them ablaze and shot residents as they tried to escape," said the army officer about the 6 a.m. raid. Attacks on the neighboring farm villages of Amuda and Arbokko earlier, around 2 a.m., left nine people dead and several homes destroyed. Arbokko resident Josiah Ali said people were asleep when Boko Haram struck. "The gunmen fired at people as they rushed out of their homes in a bid to escape," Ali said. Thirteen people were seriously injured in the attack in Amuda, resident Pirda Takweshe said. Borno state police commissioner Lawan Tanko confirmed the attacks, but did not give details on casualties. Monday, Boko Haram stormed a military base and a police station in Yobe state, also in the northeast, security sources said. The attacks in the town of Buni Yadi left 18 soldiers and 15 police officers dead, the sources said. The group has stepped up its deadly raids on villages in Borno state in recent months. Boko Haram, which means "western education is a sin," is still holding more than 200 girls it abducted last month from a school in Chibok, also in Borno state. The militant group says its aim is to impose a stricter enforcement of Sharia law across Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation, which is split between a majority Muslim north and a mostly Christian south. READ: Boko Haram kills 33 security personnel in Nigeria attacks, sources say READ: Nigerian military official claims he knows whereabouts of kidnapped girls READ: CNN exclusive: Nigerian girl who escaped Boko Haram says she still feels afraid  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/israeli-shooting-investigation/index.html	world	Source: Israel suspends soldier after 2 Palestinians die in shooting - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 01:37:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The Israeli military has suspended a soldier who was filmed by CNN firing a rifle at Palestinian demonstrators during a deadly shooting incident on May 15 that resulted in the deaths of two Palestinian teenagers, an Israeli military source told CNN. The source, who asked not to be identified because of a continuing Israeli investigation, said the soldier that was suspended worked for the military's communications department and was not supposed to be shooting at all. "He's not supposed to shoot things," the military source told CNN. "And that's ultimately what he was doing," the source said. "That's why he was suspended until the investigation has been completed." The Israeli Defense Force is standing by its assertion that Israeli border police and soldiers only fired tear gas and rubber-coated projectiles during deadly clashes in the West Bank village of Beitunya on May 15. Security cameras caught the fatal shooting that day of two Palestinian teenagers in Beitunya. According to six hours of raw, unedited video distributed by the children's rights advocacy organization Defense of Children International and reviewed by CNN in its entirety, the two boys -- ages 17 and 16 -- were shot on the same patch of asphalt on the same day, the second victim 73 minutes after the first. At the exact moment when the first boy, Nadeem Nouwarah, was fatally wounded, CNN producer Kareem Khadder was also filming the clashes. In the CNN video, it is not clear what kind of rounds the Israelis were shooting, or whether their gunfire hit Nouwarah. However, Khadder's camera shows that less than 15 seconds after one of these gunshots, Palestinians were already racing to put the fatally wounded Nouwarah in the ambulance. CNN filmed two Israeli security officers firing at the time of the incident. The first wore the black uniform and visored-helmet of a border police officer. The second wore the green uniform of the Israeli Defense Force, and appears to be the same man who was filmed earlier taking photographs with a still camera. Seconds after he shoots his weapon, a border policeman takes the rifle from him. CNN was able to match events on the security video with events on CNN's own video. The IDF soldier is seen at other moments in the video aiming the rifle at the Palestinian protesters, appearing to be coached by a border police officer. IDF spokesmen and military experts tell CNN that both of the weapons fired in the video appear to be outfitted with an attachment used to shoot rubber-coated, metal projectiles. These "rubber bullets" are designed to wound, but not penetrate the bodies of the targets. According to a medical report, Nouwarah was pronounced dead in a hospital, having suffered a single bullet wound that entered chest and passed out his back. Doctors pronounced the other teenage victim, Mohammad Odeh Salameh, dead on arrival at the hospital, with a bullet wound that had pierced his back and exited out of his chest. During an interview last week, Nouwarah's grieving father Siam showed CNN the bloody backpack that his son was filmed wearing at the moment he was shot. There was a small hole in the bag, at roughly the same location where the bullet would have exited from Nouwarah's body. The elder Nouwarah then pulled a packet of bloodstained papers out of the bag. They were photocopies of a text book that included the writings of Anton Chekhov, accompanied by handwriting, doodles, and class notes. "We were surprised when we took the school backpack back from the hospital to find this bullet inside," said the elder Nouwarah, who then pulled out a small used bullet stored in a plastic bag out of the backpack. The metal slug appeared to be from a 556 NATO round, the standard ammunition used by M-16 rifles carried by Israeli security forces. It was impossible for CNN to confirm the authenticity of the bullet. Siam Nouwarah said he was saving it for a forensic examination. He accuses Israeli soldiers of killing his son. The Israeli human rights organization B'Tselem, which investigates allegations of human rights abuses in the West Bank, said the fatal shootings in Beitunya could not have been caused by rubber bullets. "We still think that these injuries could not have been sustained with any other weapons other than live ammunition," said Sarit Michaeli, a B'Tselem spokeswoman. Though rubber bullets are sometimes known to be fatal, Michaeli said "there's just no recorded incident ever of a rubber bullet killing two people from a range of about 70 meters," referring to an estimate of the distance between the border police and the victims.  However, Michaeli added that the CNN footage shows "border police firing something that looks very much like a rubber bullet." The U.S. State Department has joined the United Nations in calling for a swift and impartial investigation into the shootings.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/americas/brazil-drug-gangs-world-cup/index.html	world	Drug gangs rule favelas away from World Cup crackdown - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 02:06:17 EDT 2014	Rio de Janeiro (CNN) -- Women shake their hips seductively and children dance in flip-flops to booming electronic music while young men brandish pistols and the occasional assault rifle. It's just another funk party in one of the lawless favelas on the outskirts of Rio de Janeiro. Since 2008, when authorities launched a so-called "pacification" effort, police have stormed dozens of slums to squeeze out criminal gangs and make the city safer for residents as well as the hundreds of thousands of tourists expected for the World Cup, which starts next month, and the 2016 Olympic Games. Initially, police targeted shantytowns closest to tourist hot spots, the iconic favelas that cling to hills overlooking Copacabana and Ipanema. But far from the sunny beaches and pretty promenades that line the coast, drug gangs still reign supreme. Even during the day, the drug business is brisk and carried out in the open. Armed men, often just teenagers, stand watch at corners and communicate by radio as housewives, workers and children coming home from school walk by. Sales are made from a plastic table erected on a corner, piled with little baggies of marijuana, hashish, cocaine, crack, even an inhalant containing ether. Money is stuffed in plastic containers. The local dealers agree to talk while they carry on with their trade. "What we sell most is the famous white powder, the 20-real hits," says Jorge as he holds up little baggies of cocaine, worth about $8. A hit of crack costs about $2 and a baggie of marijuana about $4. They say most of their customers are locals, but they increasingly have more clients coming from Rio's wealthier neighborhoods because of the heavier police presence there. Jorge, 22 with bleached hair, wears board shorts and flip-flops and has an AR-15 slung over his shoulder. "I was born in the middle of trafficking. I didn't see any other alternative," he says. "If I could choose a profession, I would be a fireman or a doctor." For decades, Rio's favelas were neglected by authorities, considered no-go zones even by police. Rival drug gangs fought for control. They became judge, jury and executioner -- and a part of daily life. Jorge says: "If I told you I wasn't afraid of dying it would be a lie. If I told you I avoided death, it would be a lie. I wouldn't be here trafficking if it were true." But he says he thinks the greater police presence would make life worse for his community. Under the controversial pacification program, police have reduced crime and killings in the communities where they have seized control from drug gangs, but they have also come under fire for strong-arm tactics and excessive violence. In some cases they have been accused of murder. Police are investigating some allegations but say they are isolated incidents. In the hundreds of far-flung shantytowns that haven't yet been included in the program, feelings are mixed. A community organizer, who asked not to be named, said a police presence should just be the first step for greater participation in city life. "What we need here are opportunities for our young people, like job training and internships," he said. "The police just come in here wanting to break heads." But for Wagner, a former trafficker now interned at a drug rehabilitation shelter, pacification would be a way for his community to break free. "My community lives in a constant war zone. There are people who support the traffickers, but they always want something in exchange: They want your son or they want you to leave your door open so they can escape from the police. They always want something," he says. But most people seem to agree that the police first have to convince communities they won't just pack up and leave once the World Cup and Olympics are over.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/new-zealand-living-fossil-found/index.html	world	Thought extinct for 4 million years, found living in New Zealand - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 02:41:24 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Don't call it a comeback, it's been here for years -- millions of years. A sea animal called Protulophila was thought to have been extinct for 4 million years, but has been found living in New Zealand waters. Never heard of Protulophila? It is a tiny animal related to corals and sea anemones, that forms tiny holes on the tubes of marine worms, according to the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research. This creature was not known to have lived outside of Europe and the Middle East, but this year, a group of scientists found fossils of Protulophila in New Zealand. These fossils dated to a period when the creatures were thought to be extinct already. So the researchers re-examined some tubeworms that were collected in New Zealand in 2008, and discovered that they had overlooked the Protulophila that was living on them, NIWA said in a news release. Scientists refer to this finding as the discovery of a "living fossil," referring to animals and plants that are so rare they are usually only seen as fossils. "Finding living Protulophila is a rare example of how knowledge of fossils has led to the discovery of living biodiversity," NIWA marine biologist Dennis Gordon said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/03/us/willis-tower-fast-facts/index.html	us	Willis Tower Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/10/03	Thursday Oct 3 01:29:06 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's some background information about Willis Tower, located in Chicago. Formerly the Sears Tower, it is now named for its tenants, the Willis Group Holdings. The visitors' observation deck, called the "Skydeck," is located on the 103rd floor. Other Info:  Willis Tower is currently the tallest skyscraper in North America at 1,730 feet. When One World Trade Center is completed in early 2014, it will be the tallest building in North America at 1,776 feet, and Willis Tower will be second. The Sears Tower was the world's tallest building until 1996, when it was surpassed by the Petronas Twin Towers. 100 tallest completed buildings in the world With clear weather, four states are viewable up to 50 miles away: Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin. 25,000 people enter the skyscraper every day. 1.3 million visitors go up to the Skydeck each year. The Skydeck elevator can travel to the Skydeck in one minute, ten seconds. Characteristics:  Structural Height - 1,450 feet or 110 floors Height with the two antennas - 1,730 feet Height to Skydeck/103rd floor - 1,354 feet Lowest level - 43 feet below Franklin St. Building Size - 4.56 million gross square feet Weight - 222,500 tons or 445 million pounds Cost to build - $150 million Windows - 16,100 Building exterior - black aluminum and bronze-tinted glass Architectural firm - Skidmore, Owings & Merrill Architect - Bruce Graham Structural Engineer - Fazlur Khan Timeline:  1970 - Construction begins. May 3, 1973 - Construction is completed, the last floors are "topped out." 1973 - The Sears Tower is open to tenants. 1974 - The Skydeck opens to the public. 1994 - Sears, Roebuck and Co. sells the building to Aldrich, Eastman & Waltch. 1996 - The Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, surpass the Sears Tower in height to become the world's tallest buildings at 1,483 feet each. The Sears Tower becomes the world's third tallest building, at the time (behind Petronas Tower 1 and Petronas Tower 2). December 3, 1997 - AEW Partners LP sells the building to Canadian real estate firm, TrizecHahn Corp. August 28, 2003 - MIAC (Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity Company), an affiliate of MetLife, purchases the tower. March 2009 - The owners of the Sears Tower announce that the building will be renamed Willis Tower in 2009, after new tenant Willis Group Holdings. July 2009 - Skydeck's attraction, the Ledge, opens on the 103rd floor. It is a series of glass bays, with glass floors, that extend 4.3 feet outwards from the building. Visitors can now look directly down 1,353 feet to the street below. August 2009 - The Sears Tower is officially renamed Willis Tower. January 2010 - The Burj Khalifa in Dubai, U.A.E., becomes the world's tallest building measured at 2,717 feet, making Willis Tower the world's fifth tallest building, at the time.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/sport/nba-london-mexico-expansion/index.html	iSport	NBA back in Mexico City and London as expansion gathers pace - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 03:24:27 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- The National Basketball Association (NBA) stepped up its global expansion Thursday with announcements of regular season games in the 2014/15 season in Mexico City and London. The Houston Rockets will take on the Minnesota Timberwolves in Mexico City Arena on November 12, while the British capital will host Milwaukee Bucks against the New York Knicks at the O2 Arena on January 15. Minnesota will be hoping to avoid its experience when last scheduled to play at the same venue on December 4 of last year. Its regular season game against San Antonio Spurs had to be postponed after a generator malfunction sent smoke billowing into the arena. Read: Hoop dreams turn to reality for NBA The game was made up in April, but Timberwolves president Chris Wright said his team was not put off by the unfortunate incident. "This is a great opportunity for the NBA and the Minnesota Timberwolves to continue the incredible growth of our international fan base. The Mexico City fans were phenomenal last year and we look forward to visiting them again this season," he said in a statement. It will be the fifth regular season game played in London, an annual event which started in 2011. A capacity crowd last year saw Brooklyn Nets beat the Atlanta Hawks 127-110 at the O2. London is also part of the expansion plans for the National Football League, with regular season NFL games being staged at Wembley to sell out crowds since 2007. The four teams selected for the overseas feature games next season have many non U.S. players on their rosters. Read: London hosts first regular NBA game At the end of the 2013/14 NBA campaign they had a combined 18 international players from 17 countries "While London and Mexico City each have their own unique culture, they both have rich sports traditions and share a great passion for the NBA," said NBA Commissioner Adam Silver. "These regular-season games will bring the excitement and incredible competition of our league to more fans in Europe and Latin America," he added. The NBA has previously announced a series of pre-season games as part of the league's Global Games promotion. Two-time defending champion Miami Heat will be among the five teams playing the matches across four countries. The Heat joins the Brooklyn Nets, Cleveland Cavaliers, Sacramento Kings and San Antonio Spurs in a series of games in Brazil, China, Germany, and Turkey. Read: NFL continues love affair with London  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/politics/snowden-nsa-email/index.html	politics	NSA releases Edward Snowden e-mail exchange - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 04:06:12 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- The NSA has released an e-mail exchange between Edward Snowden and the agency's general counsel's office, refuting a claim the former contractor made in an interview this week. Speaking to NBC News in an interview that aired Wednesday, Snowden claimed that he'd reached out to the office while working as an National Security Agency contractor to report what he saw as an abuse of power by the agency. "I reported that there were real problems with the way the NSA was interpreting its legal authorities," he told NBC's Brian Williams. In the e-mail exchange released by the NSA Thursday, Snowden requests clarification about training material he'd received, asking whether executive orders can override federal laws. The general counsel's office responded to Snowden's e-mail, saying that executive orders have the "force and effect of law" but cannot override a statute. "Please give me a call if you would like to discuss further," the e-mail concludes. In his interview with NBC, Snowden said that after raising concerns, he essentially was told to "stop asking questions." He described his contact with the general counsel's office as an indication of what he said were his efforts to go through official channels to raise his concerns about the NSA before leaking classified documents. In a statement Thursday, the NSA said the e-mail exchange it released was the only communication found and there was no evidence Snowden followed up. "We have searched for additional indications of outreach from him in those areas and to date have not discovered any engagements related to his claims," the statement said. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/travel/willis-tower-cracks/index.html	travel	Willis Tower cracks frighten tourists, but officials say no danger - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 04:04:16 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A protective coating on a glass sightseeing box that extends from the 103rd floor of the Willis Tower in Chicago cracked Wednesday night, but officials said no one was ever in danger. Tourist Alejandro Garibay and four of his family members were standing in one of the glass boxes that jut out from the side of the tower when they heard a strange, worrisome noise below them. "I looked down and I could see it cracking and lines going through the glass so we immediately just jumped off as fast as we could," Garibay told CNN affiliate WGN. A Willis Tower spokesman Bill Utter clarified Thursday that it was a protective coating, not glass, that cracked -- as it sometimes does. "At no time whatsoever was the integrity of the structure compromised," he said. The ledges are designed to hold 5 tons, and the coating keeps the glass from being scratched. "The protective layer did exactly what it was supposed to do," Utter said. The four Skydeck ledges are a series of clear bays with glass floors that extend a little more than feet from the building. Visitors can see the street 1,353 feet below their feet. According to the Skydeck website, each bay is made from three layers of half-inch thick glass. Visitors who step into one of the boxes can see for 50 miles across four states. Since 2009, 6 million people have ventured into the ledges, which retract into the tower when the windows need cleaning. The ledges were closed Thursday, but the Skydeck viewing area on the 103rd floor was open. The Hancock Building nearby has a new glass observation feature, but visitors hold on to handrails as the section tilts out about 1,000 feet above the city streets. CNN's John Newsome and Christie Bear contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/tech/social-media/facebook-automatic-posts/index.html	tech	Facebook is cutting back on spammy auto-posts - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 04:13:32 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- For the second time in just over a week, Facebook has done an about-face on a feature that has bothered some users for a while. Fewer automatic posts will be showing up in your News Feed telling you what a friend is listening to on Spotify, which level they just defeated on "Candy Crush" or when they've posted a filtered selfie on Instagram. The social-media giant has announced it will be giving those posts less clout in its News Feed algorithm -- the tool that decides which posts you're mostly likely to want to see -- while giving extra emphasis to actions your friends choose to share. So, to use the Spotify example, you'll be less likely to see an automatic post when a friend listens to a song but more likely to notice when they share a playlist they just created. "We've found that stories people choose to explicitly share from third party apps are typically more interesting and get more engagement in News Feed than stories shared from third party apps without explicit action," Facebook's Peter Yang wrote in a post on the company's blog for developers. "We've also heard that people often feel surprised or confused by stories that are shared without taking an explicit action. In the coming months, we will continue to prioritize explicitly shared stories from apps in News Feed over implicitly shared stories." Yang said that app creators will have to start specifically request that actions from their app be automatically shared. "If your app is currently publishing stories implicitly, we encourage you to consider these options instead," Yang wrote, listing tools that let users tell their friends what they're up to. They include a new tool that lets app users share their activity directly in Messenger chats (say, with all your friends who still play "FarmVille?") and the ability to add the "Like" button, already appearing on more than 10 million Web pages, to mobile apps. And Facebook is walking the walk, too. Instagram, which Facebook purchased in 2012, was among the first third-party apps to get rid of automatic posts. Reactions on social media have been largely positive, even if many posts have a "What took you so long?" feel about them. "Great news to start my day. I am truly happy," wrote Lynda Appell, a Twitter user from Philadelphia. "Hope Farmville's in there," Sarah-Jane Boden, founder of marketing group Soul Providers, added on the networking site. The change came less than a week after Facebook announced that all new users will have their privacy settings default to "Friends Only" and that existing users will get messages urging them to make sure their settings are where they want them. Critics have questioned Facebook's commitment to privacy over the course of its 10-year history, claiming the company would prefer users share as openly as possible -- which advertisers like -- than adjust their settings to be more private. But changes in recent months suggest the social platform has decided on a different tack. Last month, Facebook rolled out the ability to log in "anonymously," preventing other websites and third-party apps from collecting data about you.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/health/cnnheroes-javian/index.html	health	A lifeline for families hit by heart disease - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 04:27:53 EDT 2014	New York (CNN) -- Michelle Javian remembers the exact moment she got the news that her father had a massive heart attack. She was driving her car. Her mother called her. "I just remember stopping in the middle of the street, just in complete shock," Javian said. Doctors were able to save her father's life that day, but he spent the next two years in and out of a New York City hospital to treat his heart disease. Fortunately, Javian and her family lived near the city and could easily travel to and from the hospital. But she met countless families in the hospital who were not as lucky. "They were living in the waiting rooms day in and day out, taking showers wherever and whenever they could, eating really unhealthy," said Javian, 31. "They were emotionally drained." New York City boasts world-class hospitals for cardiac care. But it is also one of the most expensive cities, putting hotels, transportation and even food out of reach for some families. After her father passed away in 2008, Javian teamed up with a friend to co-found Harboring Hearts. The New York City nonprofit provides financial and emotional relief to families battling heart disease. "We try to help them with what they would normally be able to handle on their own, but because of their attention and focus and dedication to their family member, they're unable to meet those needs," Javian said. Harboring Hearts helps cover expenses such as transportation, housing, meals and child care. Keeping family together Javian and her group consult with social workers from three hospitals to identify families who need them the most. For families such as the Gambinis, the support they receive from Harboring Hearts can be a lifesaver. Brandon Gambini had a heart transplant when he was 5 weeks old. Since then, the now 13-year-old has required medication and regular tests at the hospital to make sure his body is not rejecting his heart. His mother, Jacqueline, was introduced to Harboring Hearts in 2012, after Superstorm Sandy flooded the family's home and car. A single mother of three, Jacqueline had nowhere to turn to find a safe, clean place for her son. The family went to a crowded shelter, but because of Brandon's weak immune system, they could not stay there. Do you know a hero? Nominations are open for 2014 CNN Heroes "It was a really bad time. I had no money. I lost everything at once," Jacqueline said. "I told the hospital I needed help." Within 48 hours, Javian's group was able to find a hotel for the family. The organization also helped cover their mortgage and purchase new furniture for their house once they were able to move back in. Recently, the group funded the Gambinis' transportation to New York City and a hotel room near the hospital during Brandon's stay. "Having them is like having part of the family, and having someone you can ask when you need help," Jacqueline said. "It's a support -- something I don't have right now." From one heart to another Since 2009, Harboring Hearts has helped cover more than $150,000 in services for families, Javian said. The group also hosts roughly six community events a year, where recipient families can connect with each other. Nearly 3,000 families have participated in the events. "They can really relate to one another," Javian said. "Whether it is similar financial experiences or it is emotional, they connect and bond." For Javian, her efforts are a chance to keep her father's memory alive. "After my father passed away, it was really difficult, and I wanted to do something positive from the loss," she said. "I feel like it's one of my life's purposes ... to do good and bring happiness and relief and support to the families in need." Want to get involved? Check out the Harboring Hearts website at www.harboringhearts.org and see how to help.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/us/bloomberg-harvard-speech/index.html	us	Michael Bloomberg: Universities becoming bastions of intolerance - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 04:24:38 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, speaking at Thursday's commencement speech at Harvard University, criticized what he described as a disturbing trend of liberals silencing voices they "deemed politically objectionable." "This spring, it has been disturbing to see a number of college commencement speakers withdraw -- or have their invitations rescinded -- after protests from students and -- to me, shockingly -- from senior faculty and administrators who should know better," Bloomberg said. The billionaire former mayor cited an October speech during which his ex-police commissioner, Ray Kelly, was shouted down by students at Brown University. The university canceled Kelly's speech when protesters opposed to the police department's stop-and-frisk policy shouted down and interrupted Kelly. Bloomberg noted other universities have had speakers back out. He pointed to Rutgers, where former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice withdrew amid protests, and Smith College, where International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde withdrew after a student petition. "In each case, liberals silenced a voice -- and denied an honorary degree -- to individuals they deemed politically objectionable. This is an outrage," Bloomberg said to applause. An even more glaring example of failing to listen to the opposing side, Bloomberg said, was the longstanding impasse between Republicans and Democrats in Washington, where every major question facing the nation is decided "not by engaging with one another but by trying to shout each other down." Bloomberg, who in April pledged $50 million to gun control groups he helped organize, spoke about Washington politicians' handling of gun issues, noting Congress has barred the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from conducting studies of gun violence, a prohibition that was recently extended to the National Institute of Health. "What are they afraid of?" he asked. The Senate this year delayed a vote on President Obama's nominee for surgeon general, Dr. Vivek Murthy, because the Harvard physician "had the audacity to say gun violence is a public health crisis that should be tackled," Bloomberg said to applause. "Let's get serious: When 85 Americans are killed with guns every single day, and shootings regularly occur at our schools and universities, including last week's tragedy at Santa Barbara, it would be almost medical malpractice to say anything else," Bloomberg said. The former mayor, who received honorary degrees from Harvard along with seven others -- including former President George H.W. Bush and music icon Aretha Franklin -- spoke of the role of great universities as places where people of all backgrounds and beliefs can freely debate ideas without that "sacred trust" being threatened by the "tyrannical tendencies of monarchs, mobs and majorities." He recalled when when protesters came out several years ago against the development of a mosque a few blocks from ground zero in lower Manhattan. "We protected their right to protest," Bloomberg said. "But they could not have been more wrong. And we refused to cave in to their demands. The idea that government would single out a particular religion, and block its believers -- and only its believers -- from building a house of worship in a particular area is diametrically opposed to the moral principles that gave rise to our great nation, and the constitutional protections that have sustained it." He added, "If you want the freedom to worship as you wish, to speak as you wish, and to marry whom you wish, you must tolerate my freedom to do so -- or not do so -- too. What I do may offend you. You may find my actions immoral or unjust. But attempting to restrict my freedoms in ways that you would not restrict your own leads only to injustice." Bloomberg compared the intolerance of ideas prevalent in the country today to "McCarthy's Red Scare" and its destruction of thousands of lives. In the 2012 presidential race, he said, the overwhelming majority of campaign contributions from Ivy League faculty went to Barack Obama. "Today, on many college campuses, it is liberals trying to repress conservative ideas, even as conservative faculty members are at risk of becoming an endangered species," he said. Before Bloomberg's speech, Cary Williams, president of the Association of Black Harvard Women, questioned why Bloomberg was selected as speaker, because the NYPD's stop-and-frisk program "disproportionately has targeted people of color in New York." "It's basically racial profiling," junior Keyanna Wigglesworth said of the New York policing policy under Bloomberg. "And so it's unsettling to me, (for) someone to speak who advocates a racist policy when you want students of color on campus to feel comfortable. It's confusing and I don't think its what Harvard stands for." Antoine Eskander, a graduate of the School of Public Health, said: "As far as we're concerned, as people that have studied at the School of Public Health, Michael Bloomberg is awesome in terms of the amount of money he's donated to public health and the public health initiatives he's taken on." CNN's Laura Dolan contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/showbiz/george-michael-hospital/index.html	entertainment	George Michael is 'well and resting' after mystery hospital visit - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 04:38:50 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- George Michael spent two days in a London hospital last week, but his representative is not revealing why. The singer was admitted for treatment on Thursday, May 22, and was "well and resting" after he was discharged over the weekend, according to Michael rep Connie Filippello. Nothing more will be made public "given the personal nature of this matter," she said. Filippello used the media spotlight drawn by the illness to make sure fans know the singer has new music coming out this summer. "He is very much looking forward to the release of his new single in July," she said. Michael turns 51 in June. George Michael: 'Incredibly fortunate to be here' CNN's Joan Yeam contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/politics/michelle-obama-nutrition/index.html	politics	Setback for first lady in food fight with Congress - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:14:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- First lady Michelle Obama's drive to stop a Republican-led effort to slow adoption of nutrition standards for school meals, a centerpiece of her anti-obesity "Let's Move" campaign, was dealt a setback in Congress. Democrats aligned with Mrs. Obama on the issue failed on Thursday to strip the proposal from a $142.5 billion Agriculture Department spending bill, which was approved by the Appropriations Committee and sent to the full House for consideration. The controversial plan offered by Rep. Robert Aderholt of Alabama would give schools struggling financially an extra year to comply with rules approved by Congress in 2010 to limit fat and salt and promote fruits, vegetables and whole grains. "I want to be clear that everybody supports healthy lunches and meals for children, but the bottom line is the schools are finding the regulations to be too much too quick," Aderholt said during consideration of the measure by the appropriations panel. "School districts need more time to implement the changes." An amendment proposed by Democratic Rep. Sam Farr of California to strip Aderholt's language from the bill failed 29-22 on a party line vote. "It gives schools an opt-out saying you don't have to participate in the school lunch program cause it's hard. Well, we don't tell kids, 'Look you don't have to take math if it's hard or science if it's hard. You don't have do P.E. if it's hard,'" Farr said. "This opt out for nutrition is just the wrong way to go particularly at this moment in American history when we're really trying to figure out how we can raise a healthier society," Farr said. Mrs. Obama's strong pushback on a legislative issue marks a rare political foray. She has promoted healthy eating and exercise through her White House garden and her "Let's Move" campaign for years, but she has never previously inserted herself so deeply into a congressional debate. She has taken a public stance on the bill and urged Democrats, health advocates and ordinary people to fight the waiver and other proposed changes to nutrition programs. "Remember a few years ago when Congress declared that the sauce on a slice of pizza should count as a vegetable in school lunches?" she wrote in an opinion piece published in the New York Times on Thursday. "You don't have to be a nutritionist to know that this doesn't make much sense. Yet, we're seeing the same thing happening again with these new efforts to lower nutrition standards in our schools. Our children deserve so much better than this," she said. Mrs. Obama hosted a roundtable on school meals on Tuesday and an off-the-record conference call with advocates last week, and her office says she is not backing down on this issue. Farr hopes the waiver language can ultimately be defeated in the full House. Similar legislation in the Senate does not include the waiver language. If it survives a House vote and the Senate approves its version of agriculture spending without it, then the two chambers would have to resolve the issue through negotiation.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/health/tanning-sunlamps-labeling-fda/index.html	health	Sunlamps and tanning beds get FDA warning - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:18:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The Food and Drug Administration has issued a final decision to reclassify sunlamp products and ultraviolet or UV lamps used in indoor tanning salons. The federal agency has changed the labeling requirements from low-risk to moderate-risk devices. They are also requiring the products carry a black box, visible to consumers, that states the products should not be used on people under age 18. Although a black box is the FDA's strongest warning, this does not outlaw or restrict these devices for minors. According to the FDA, the lamps emit UV radiation that may cause skin cancer. The American Academy of Dermatology says studies have shown people who have been exposed to UV rays from indoor tanning have a 59% increase of developing melanoma, the most dangerous form of skin cancer. "The FDA has taken an important step today to address the risk to public health from sunlamp products," said Dr. Jeffrey Shuren, director of the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health. "Repeated UV exposure from sunlamp products poses a risk of skin cancer for all users, but the highest risk for skin cancer is in young persons under the age of 18 and people with a family history of skin cancer." Representatives for the Indoor Tanning Association, which represents indoor tanning manufacturers and distributors across the country, said they believe the FDA is responding to pressure from certain interest groups to put stronger regulations on indoor tanning beds. "I just don't think the science is there," said John Overstreet, executive director of the association. "I think it's blown out of proportion. We are obviously disappointed in the FDA's latest moves." The association's website promotes indoor tanning's "well-known side effect" of exposing skin to UV light as producing more vitamin D, which "plays an important role in maintaining good health." It suggests the "health benefits of indoor tanning deserve further research." In 2009, the World Health Organization classified tanning beds as "carcinogenic to humans." Skin cancer experts say it is about time these changes be put into effect. "For years we have watched more and more people being diagnosed with melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer. Today the Food and Drug Administration made a decision that may turn that trend around, " said Tim Turnham, executive director for the Melanoma Research Foundation. "Like the tobacco industry, tanning salons market an addictive product disproportionately to teenagers and young women, playing on common insecurities." "The FDA's decision to more strictly regulate tanning beds will save lives and serve as a valuable resource in efforts to slow down the increasing rate of melanoma, particularly in the young. By classifying tanning beds as Class II devices, tanning salons will now be required to demonstrate they are properly maintaining their equipment," he said. Noting this is a good first step, other dermatologists said they hope the FDA will do more. Dr. George Verghese, director of Mid-Atlantic Skin Surgery Institute in Waldorf, Maryland, said he sees far too many patients at the practice with skin cancer. Many of them made tanning beds a regular habit. "Those who use tanning beds on a regular basis, especially teens, have 10 times the risk of developing all three types of skin cancer, including melanoma, which is deadly," Verghese said. "My youngest melanoma patient was 18. She was using tanning beds since she was 13. She has a huge scar on her back and is constantly being monitored. I think there should be restrictions on these devices for those under the age of 18, because teens don't understand the consequences, especially when they use the beds frequently," Verghese said. "I feel the black box will help, but there needs to be more restrictions put into place." Even though there has been a push for the FDA to restrict people under 18 from using tanning beds, the FDA said that is not what the latest changes are about. "That is an action (restricting teens from using tanning beds) we are willing to consider," said Nancy Stade, deputy director for policy at the Center for Devices and Radiological Health at the FDA, "But this is not what we are addressing today." "Restricting teens' access to indoor tanning is critical to preventing skin cancer. As medical doctors who diagnose and treat skin cancer, dermatologists are committed to reducing its incidence and saving lives," said Dr. Brett M. Coldiron, a board-certified dermatologist and president of the American Academy of Dermatology Association. "Therefore, we will continue to communicate to the FDA the need for stricter regulations on the use and sale of indoor tanning devices for minors under the age of 18."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/opinion/randazza-elliot-rodger-first-amendment/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Posting Rodger video is legal, but is it right? - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:26:50 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Marc J. Randazza is a Las Vegas-based First Amendment attorney and managing partner of the Randazza Legal Group. He is licensed to practice in Arizona, California, Florida, Massachusetts and Nevada. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- A massacre. A kid. A videotaped "manifesto." As the news broke, inevitably, the discussion turned to the Second Amendment. But as I watched the killer's video, questions about the First Amendment began to rise. What are Elliot Rodger's post-mortem First Amendment rights? Does his screed belong in the marketplace of ideas? What about those who capitalized on it? Where does the First Amendment leave off and ethics begin? The video was initially on YouTube, which immediately -- and presumably automatically -- used it as an opportunity to sell adwords. That struck some people as distasteful. After all, Google -- which owns YouTube -- has the unofficial credo "Don't be evil." Profiting from the hateful ravings of a mass murderer might easily be described as evil. Let's cut the Internet giant some slack -- it places such ads automatically on all videos. But one would hope that Google, realizing it was profiting from the words of a mass murderer, might decide the ad sales weren't worth it. On the other hand, Google isn't a public service, it is a business, and if we want that video to be on the Internet, someone has to pay for the bandwidth. That raises the question whether the video should be on the Internet at all. Some credible scholars say that making mass murderers famous motivates other mass murderers. (One might even argue that this article is part of the problem). Elliot Rodger sent his lengthy diatribe to the media before he went on his killing spree -- correctly predicting that his actions would propel his ideas (such as they were) into the marketplace of ideas on a digital billboard larger than he could ever have enjoyed had he not amplified them with his psychotic rampage. Accordingly, should we not silence him? Wipe his words from the Internet forever? Let him be forgotten? There is a counter-argument -- let's let everyone see him for what he was -- a pathetic figure, worthy of no respect or pity. Let him stand as a negative example. We allow "Mein Kampf" to be published and even study it. But what of those who believe Rodger is a positive example? Sickeningly enough, some expressed admiration for what he did, as there will always be people who glorify the worst among us. While the overwhelming view is one of horror and disgust, some people put up a Facebook page praising him. As much as I disagree with that view, my beliefs are strong enough that I can tolerate theirs. Some might say that such a perspective must be purged. The First Amendment would find such a purge to be intolerable -- if enforced by the government or force of law. The First Amendment is there to protect unpopular beliefs, and the marketplace of ideas should be open to this -- and I would hope that none would visit the stall in the marketplace to buy them. That, however, ignores the issue of ethics. I have a blog. If someone wanted to glorify Rodger on my blog, I would say "my blog, my rules," and I would not tolerate it. That would not be a First Amendment violation. In fact, the right not to speak is as precious as the right to speak. Let's say that Rodger's supporters went from website to website and were met with rejection at every corner. Their ideas would, theoretically, die out -- but they would die a natural death, condemned by a lack of nourishment in the marketplace of ideas. Facebook initially was confronted with this dilemma; when people began to protest about the pro-Rodger page, the company allegedly took the all-too-common position we hear from arrogant tech companies: They didn't have to take it down, so they wouldn't. Facebook was completely within its legal rights to take that position -- but what an ethically bankrupt decision! Only when pressure became too great did Facebook seem to cave in to public opinion. The apparently belated reversal of position was hypocritical at best. If Facebook wants to be an anything-goes-and-we-don't-care company, then it should have let the page be. Otherwise, the company could have taken the position that it would not allow such filth on its digital real estate. Either position would have been completely within its rights. But braying "free speech" only until it couldn't stand the heat from that decision? Shame on Facebook. What this story shows us is not so much that our notions of free speech should be strong, but there is room for free speech and ethics. The First Amendment allows us to publish Elliot Rodger's rant and his video. The First Amendment protects our right to criticize him, to pity him, to hate him, or even to declare him a hero. But, just as with any rights, what we can do and what we should do may not be the same thing. I would hope that we will not forget that, and that the online giants might begin to learn it. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/politics/va-congress-resign/index.html	politics	List of senators who want Shinseki out - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:46:09 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Here's a list of senators calling for Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki to resign. Democrats 1. Sen. Mark Udall (D-CO) 2. Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA) 3. Sen. Al Franken (D-MN) 4. Sen. John Walsh (D-MT) 5. Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-NM) 6. Sen. Tom Udall (D-NM) 7. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) 8. Sen. Kay Hagan (D-NC) 9. Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-OR) 10. Sen Tim Kaine (D-VA) 11. Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) Republicans 1. Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) 2. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) 3. Sen. Mark Rubio (R-FL) 4. Sen. Jeff Miller (R-FL) 5. Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY) 6. Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS) 7. Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) 8. Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) 9. Sen. Deb Fischer (R-NE) 10. Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV) 11. Sen. Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) 12. Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH) 13. Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC) 14. Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX)  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/scout-willis-nude-instagram/index.html	entertainment	Scout Willis launches topless protest - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:28:44 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Scout Willis definitely walks the walk. The 22-year-old daughter of Demi Moore and Bruce Willis took a topless stroll down the streets of New York and documented it on social media to protest what she says is discrimination on the photo sharing site Instagram. Wearing just a skirt, shoes, her purse and a determined look, Willis walked around the streets of Manhattan and even did a bit of shopping for some flowers. She tweeted the pics as well as "Legal in NYC but not on Instagram," and "What @Instagram won't let you see #FreeTheNipple." The New York Daily News reported that Willis launched her skin campaign after Instagram removed one of her photos it said violated its community guidelines. The picture reportedly included a sweatshirt that depicted two topless women with the nipples visible. The actress said Instagram removed her account, but she complained that other explicit photos -- including one with a woman hiding her nipples using a pair of handguns -- were allowed. "Made a new Instagram, gonna post lots of beautiful photos of naked women I think. Tasteful, non aggressive, whomever wants to see can, if not," Willis tweeted before her topless walk. Made a new Instagram,gonna post lots of beautiful photos of naked women I think.Tasteful, non aggressive, whomever wants to see can, if not She also explained on Twitter the message she was hoping to spread. "This is about helping women feel empowered to make personal choices about their bodies not dictated by what society says is decent," she tweeted. This is about helping women feel empowered to make personal choices about their bodies not dictated by what society says is decent In New York City it is legal for a law-abiding woman to be topless in public.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/us/nba-clippers-sterling/index.html	us	Lawyer: Donald Sterling will fight to keep Clippers - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 05:23:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Donald Sterling has gotten over the initial shock he felt after an audio recording of him making racist statements was released online and will fight the NBA if it forces him to sell the Los Angeles Clippers, his attorney told CNN on Thursday. Maxwell Blecher told CNN that Sterling has emerged from his emotional state, hardened his resolve and is considering suing over the NBA's efforts to remove him as Clippers owner. But no decision has been made on whether to file a lawsuit, he said. The NBA's 30 owners will meet Tuesday to vote on whether to strip Sterling and his estranged wife, Shelly, who owns 50% of the team, of ownership rights. "The league on Tuesday has a guillotine over his head," Blecher told CNN's "The Situation Room." "They will confiscate him team illegally and if they don't want a lawsuit challenging that conduct, they need to let us know before Tuesday," the lawyer said. CNN reached out to the NBA for comment but didn't hear back immediately. Blecher told CNN that he doesn't think the team can be sold without Donald Sterling's consent. "Mr. Sterling is not going to consent unless the NBA does something about the illegal charges they have filed against him and so far we've heard nothing to indicate that will occur," he said. Several potential buyers have submitted bids to Shelly Sterling for the team, according to a source familiar with the situation. The bids are between $1 billion and approaching $2 billion, the source said, adding all expected offers have been submitted. One group is led by former NBA star Grant Hill, while another is fronted by former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer. The source told CNN that Hill's group proposed $1.2 billion and classified Ballmer's as "a strong bid." The goal is to get an agreement in principle done before Tuesday's NBA meeting, the source said. Donald Sterling has been the controlling owner of the Clippers since buying the team in 1981 for $12 million.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/annalynne-mccord-sexual-assault/index.html	entertainment	AnnaLynne McCord reveals sexual assault - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 06:01:50 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Actress AnnaLynne McCord wants victims of sexual assault to know they have a voice. That's why the "Dallas" star is opening up about her own assault in the July issue of Cosmopolitan magazine. McCord revealed that at age 18, while living in Los Angeles, a male friend assaulted her in her apartment. As it was happening, she said, she wondered if she was somehow to blame. "At first, I felt so disoriented and numb, I closed my eyes and pretended to be asleep," the actress said. "I wondered if I had done something to give him the wrong idea. I felt afraid of making him angry. Believe it or not, I didn't want to offend him." It was during her role on "90201" a few years ago, she said, when she broke down during a scene involving the rape of her character. "My castmates thought I had done a great job playing the part," McCord said. "They had no idea that I had actually been sexually assaulted by someone I knew in real life." The actress also details what she said was a childhood of strict discipline and beatings from her parents and how she once considered suicide. Now she feels it is time to speak out, she said, to aid other women. "Most of all, I have my message for women and girls: You have a voice," she said. "Don't put yourself in a box. Don't let the polite lies of society silence you. Honestly, I would endure everything all over again; it has led me to my own revolution."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/studentnews/sn-curriculum-fri/index.html	us	CNN Student News - May 30, 2014 - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 06:17:30 EDT 2014	(CNN Student News) -- May 30, 2014 This Friday on CNN Student News: government, business, technology and altruism. A scandal widens concerning the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and a concussion summit discusses better treatment of head injuries in school sports. We'll also show you how "swarm robots" could help with complicated tasks by keeping things simple. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM Check this space for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day:  Should news producers give greater priority to "good news"? Why or why not? Weekly Newsquiz:  The following questions relate to events that were covered this week on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided. 1. What poet, activist and author of "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" died this week at the age of 86? 2. According to AAA, the 100 deadliest days for teenage drivers start on what holiday? 3. What kind of policy was the focus of the speech delivered by President Obama to graduates of the U.S. Military Academy? 4. What organization currently consisting of 28 European countries was established in 1993? 5. What U.S. warship that was once the target of a terrorist attack sailed into New York as part of Fleet Week 2014? 6. Narendra Modi was elected prime minister of what Asian nation? 7. What computer company announced that it is buying Beats? 8. What kind of injury was the focus of a White House summit on safe sports? 9. What country will soon see a reduction in U.S. troops who are currently serving in America's longest-running war? 10. What U.S. government department is assigned with giving medical care and benefits to people who have served in the armed forces? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/us/utah-high-school-yearbook-photos-editing/index.html	us	Wasatch High School's yearbook photo editing angers female students - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 07:30:32 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A group of female students are outraged that their Utah high school digitally edited their photographs in the 2014 yearbook for apparently violating a dress code and failed to apply that policy to other apparent violators. Intensifying the controversy are comments from the leader of the Rape Recovery Center in Salt Lake City, who called for a school district investigation Thursday into the clothing policy, which she says is an example of a culture that shames girls and women. School leaders stood by the dress code Thursday but admitted inconsistency in the digital editing, for which the superintendent apologized. At issue is a dress policy that Wasatch High School in Heber City says it posted on yearbook picture day last fall: No tank tops. No low-cut tops. No inappropriate slogan on shirts. Violations would result in the students' portraits being edited, the school said. Now that the yearbook has been distributed, several female students are complaining that their pictures were altered to show less skin without their knowledge, according to CNN affiliate KSTU. No boys' photos were digitally edited, the girls argued. "They didn't tell you before they edited it, and they didn't give you an option to fix it, so you look funny in your yearbook picture," sophomore Shelby Baum told the news outlet. But the high school asserts that a large sign -- 4 feet by 5 feet -- warned all students of the policy at picture day last fall, the school said on its Facebook page. In response, the female students say that the pictures of some girls who apparently violated the dress policy weren't edited at all -- an accusation that prompted the superintendent's apology and a school promise to review its editing practices. "I feel like they put names in a hat and pick and choose who," sophomore Rachel Russel told the affiliate. "There were plenty of girls that were wearing thicker tank tops, and half of them got edited and half of them didn't." Indeed, Rachel's photo was clearly edited, according to images she showed the news station. Her original photo shows her wearing a low-cut top, but in the yearbook, her neckline is raised and covers a tattoo near her clavicle, the station reported. Superintendent Terry E. Shoemaker of the Wasatch County School District defended the policy, but he apologized "in the sense that we wanted to be more consistent with what it is we're trying to do," he told the affiliate. On its Facebook page, the school acknowledged that errors were made. "In the application of these graphic corrections, the high school yearbook staff did make some errors and were not consistent in how they were applied to student photos and the school apologizes for that inconsistency," the school said. "Wasatch High School and Wasatch County School District are evaluating the practice of photo editing of pictures as it now stands and will make a determination on further use of the practice." But the Rape Recovery Center in Salt Lake City raised broader issues, noting how female survivors of sexual violence "almost always blame themselves for wearing the wrong clothing or somehow encouraging men to rape them through their reckless behavior," the center said on its Facebook page. Holly Mullen, the center's executive director, says the school district should investigate the policy and the school's digital editing of yearbook photos. The center is Utah's only independent, non-profit agency providing full-time services to survivors of sexual violence ages 14 and older. "This action, a decision made by a few school officials with no apparent consultation with students or parents, is just unacceptable," Mullen said in a statement. "It is a keen example of how our culture, and especially those in power to make such random decisions, shame young women into thinking they must dress and act in one narrow, acceptable way. "This is the start of a continuum that nurtures and even encourages control over girls and women. What is more personal than their clothing choices? This is not about setting school dress codes, which schools certainly have the right to do. These were photos the girls paid for, yearbooks they bought with their own money. This is a public school, supported with tax dollars," Mullen said. Shoemaker wasn't immediately available for comment on Mullen's accusations. For now, students will have to live forever with what they describe as unflattering photos in their yearbook. "I was upset because my shirt was a cream color and the color of the cover-up was completely white. It looks like white-out on my skin," sophomore Kimberly Montoya told KSTU.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/health/richard-iii-spine-scoliosis/index.html	health	A case of scoliosis: Richard III's spine was twisted, not hunched - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 07:33:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Shakespeare wrote of Richard III as a "bunch back'd toad," he didn't have the benefit of actually seeing the king, who had died in the previous century. Now we know the playwright was probably wrong about Richard's physical features. Scientists have analyzed the bones of the British monarch and determined that he was not actually a hunchback. In fact, he had a significant spinal curve that we would call scoliosis. Researchers published their latest results Thursday in the Lancet. "It's a twist rather than a forward bend," said study co-author Piers Mitchell of the Department of Archaeology and Anthropology at the University of Cambridge. "We were expecting him to have a hunchback deformity the way Shakespeare described," he added. Richard III reigned over England from 1483 to 1485 and died during the two-hour Battle of Bosworth against the forces of Henry Tudor. The king's remains were discovered in 2012 under a parking lot. Archaeologists determined at that time that Richard III had scoliosis, a condition characterized by a curvature of the spine. Researchers wanted to make sure Richard was like that in life, not just as a result of his bones having been buried for centuries. Just by looking at his skeleton, they had clues. "A lot of the bones around the maximum part of the curve of his scoliosis were asymmetric. One side was different from the other, which shows that the deformity was a genuine thing during life." Using computerized tomography, researchers created a three-dimensional reconstruction of Richard's spine. They also made a model of the spine using a 3-D printer. This let them examine the bones more closely than when the spine was in the ground. The spine appeared to have a twist indicative of scoliosis. Researchers measured the angle of curve and used medical research to understand what Richard's life might have been like. The diagnosis of scoliosis means Richard III had a physical health condition in common with about 2% to 3% of the American population, according to the American Association of Neurological Surgeons. "Buffy" actress Sarah Michelle Gellar, top golfer Stacy Lewis and Judy Blume's character Deenie all have it, too. Richard's scoliosis was probably not inherited, and it probably began sometime after he was 10, researchers said. Conditions such as cerebral palsy and muscular dystrophy might cause scoliosis, but those are rare explanations, according to the Mayo Clinic. In up to 85% of people with scoliosis, including Richard III, there is no known cause, according to the National Institutes of Health. Doctors call this "idiopathic." Normally in scoliosis, the spine takes on a shape that resembles the letter "S" or "C." Children may be prescribed a brace to prevent further curving. The NIH says patients who are still growing and have curves of more than 25 to 30 degrees, or a curve between 20 to 29 degrees that is getting worse, will be advised to wear a brace. Richard's spine has a curvature of 70 to 80 degrees. Anything over 50 degrees is a candidate for surgery, Mitchell said; the NIH puts this figure at 45 degrees. Research has not proved that chiropractic manipulation, electrical stimulation, nutritional supplementation or exercise stop curves that are worsening, although exercise has other benefits for general well-being. The spinal curve probably wouldn't have reduced Richard's lung capacity such that he couldn't exercise, researchers said. There are other discrepancies between Shakespeare's descriptions and the skeleton besides the back problem, Mitchell said. The real Richard does not appear to have had a limp or a withered arm, as Shakespeare had described. His trunk and abdomen would have appeared short compared with his arms and legs, Mitchell said. His right shoulder would have been slightly higher than the left. His curved spine and these other asymmetries would have been more obvious when the king was unclothed than clothed. "However, a good tailor and custom-made armour could have minimized the visual impact of this," the study's authors wrote. Leicester will be final burial place of King Richard III  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/tech/mobile/spiegel-snapchat-leaked-e-mails/index.html	tech	Snapchat CEO 'mortified' by leaked e-mails - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 08:25:38 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The CEO of popular messaging app Snapchat is apologizing after a set of filthy e-mails he wrote several years ago to his fraternity brothers at Stanford University was leaked publicly this week. In the e-mails, acquired by Gawker's Valleywag blog, Evan Spiegel encourages fellow Kappa Sigma members to get sorority women drunk enough to have sex, mocks another fraternity by suggesting its members are gay and refers to a different group of sorority members as "sororisluts." "Hope at least six girl[s] [performed a sex act on you] last night because that didn't happen for me," he wrote in one e-mail after a fraternity party, according to the Gawker blog. In another, the blog says, he jokes that the point of a laser-tag outing was to "shoot lazers at fat girls." In a written response sent to CNN by Snapchat, Spiegel, now 23, apologized for the e-mails. "I'm obviously mortified and embarrassed that my idiotic e-mails during my fraternity days were made public," he said. "I have no excuse. I'm sorry I wrote them at the time and I was a jerk to have written them. They in no way reflect who I am today or my views towards women." A Snapchat spokeswoman told CNN that Spiegel had no further comment. In other messages that were screen-grabbed onto the Gawker blog, Spiegel described a party "shopping list" that included "3 kegs, 5 ... plastic shot glasses, 1 ounce of marijuana, 1 kilo of blow (cocaine)." In another, he writes, "I'll roll a blunt for whoever sees the most (breasts) tonight," according to the blog. Some of the messages were too sexually explicit for CNN to publish. Snapchat is a mobile messaging app popular with teens and young adults. It lets users trade photos and videos that disappear after a few seconds. Spiegel created Snapchat along with fraternity brother Bobby Murphy while attending Stanford. He left the university in 2012, shortly before finishing his degree, to focus on Snapchat. A third Kappa Sigma member, Reginald "Reggie" Brown IV, is suing Snapchat, saying he was the one who came up with the app's concept of disappearing messages and designed its logo but was omitted from the launch of the company. It's now valued at around $4 billion. Spiegel has denied the lawsuit's allegations. Spiegel and Murphy founded their company as Picaboo in July 2011 and later changed its name to Snapchat. The app, which developed a reputation early in its history as a tool for sharing sexual images, is estimated to have more than 30 million users. Snapchat claims its users send more than 700 million photos and videos a day. Snapchat reportedly turned down a $3 billion acquisition offer from Facebook last fall. Time magazine last month named Spiegel and Murphy among its 100 Most Influential People of 2014. Spiegel's leaked e-mails may be seen as yet another example of a "brogrammer" culture in Silicon Valley and the male-dominated tech industry, where some female employees have complained about sexist comments and a lack of respect from their male co-workers.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/justice/los-angeles-dodgers-game-violence-trial/index.html	crime	Trial begins in severely beaten fan's suit against Dodgers ex-owner - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 08:36:52 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The lawyer for Bryan Stow, the San Francisco Giants fan severely beaten at a Los Angeles Dodgers game in 2011, argued Thursday that the former owners of the Dodgers went cheap on safety, and that played a factor in his client's debilitating injuries. The attorney for former Dodgers owner Frank McCourt, meanwhile, countered by claiming Stow was drunk and aggressive at the time of the brawl that left Stow brain-damaged and disabled. So went the opening remarks at a civil trial in which Stow is suing the Dodgers and claiming the team had faulty security measure and defective facilities that contributed to the attack. Stow, who uses a wheelchair and lives with his parents in Capitola, California, wasn't in the courtroom, located two miles from Dodgers Stadium. Stow's attorney's, Thomas Girardi, told a jury that McCourt had an irresponsible approach to fan safety. "(He) got rid of uniformed officers in (Dodger Stadium) because it was cheaper," said Thomas Girardi in his opening statement. Girardi argued that under McCourt, the Dodgers dropped the number of uniformed security officers from 120 in 2009 to 19 in 2011. Girardi said Stow's lawsuit is not against the current Dodger organization and its management group that includes NBA legend Magic Johnson. But the lawyer for McCourt and his former Dodgers management argued his clients acted reasonably, and called Stow intoxicated and aggressive before the assault. Stow's blood alcohol level was at least 0.16, which is twice the legal threshold for DUI in California, attorney Dana Fox said. "This occurred due to a hot tempered, intoxicated flash firefight," attorney Fox told the jury. Fox argued the McCourt Dodgers spent a record $66,000 dollars on 2011 opening-day security against the rival Giants -- the day when Stow was severely beaten. Stow's mother, Elizabeth Stow, testified her son cannot walk or use the toilet unassisted. Stow wears adult diapers all day and a catheter at night, the mother said. "He just doesn't have the sense that he had to go to the bathroom right now," Stow's mother, a former church secretary, said. Stow takes what seems to be an alphabet-long list of prescription drugs daily, from Ambien to Xarelto, she said. He takes 27 to 28 medicines a day, she added. Fox said no one disputes that the two men now serving time for the savage attack caused Stow's injuries, and he emphasized that no one from the Dodgers organization assaulted the former paramedic. In February, Marvin Norwood, 33, and Louie Sanchez, 31, were sentenced to four years and eight years, respectively, for their roles in Stow's beating. Stow's lawyer argued Thursday that Norwood and Sanchez began swearing and throwing food at Giants' fans in the second inning of the 2011 game and should have been thrown out by stadium security then. The lawsuit seeks a total of $50 million, mostly to cover Stow's long-term medical costs, for him and his two children. Dad of severely beaten Giants fan calls two sentenced men 'cretins'  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/04/08/us/steve-ballmer-fast-facts/index.html	us	Steve Ballmer Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/04/08	Monday Apr 8 05:54:41 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here is a look at the life of Steve Ballmer, former CEO of Microsoft. Personal:  Birth date: March 24, 1956 Birth place: Detroit, Michigan Birth name:  Steven Anthony Ballmer Father:  Fred Ballmer, manager for Ford Motor Co. Mother: Bea (Dworkin) Ballmer Marriage: Connie (Snyder) Ballmer (1990-present) Children:  three sons Education: Harvard University, B.A., 1977, double major in Mathematics and Economics; Attended Stanford University Graduate School of Business, 1979-1980 Other Facts:  Became friends with Bill Gates while at Harvard University. Worked for Procter & Gamble as assistant product manager before Microsoft. Met his wife, Connie Snyder, while both were working at Microsoft. Timeline:  1980 - Begins his Microsoft career as a business manager and is the company's 24th employee. July 1998-February 2001 - President of Microsoft. January 13, 2000 - Is named chief executive officer when Bill Gates steps down to concentrate on philanthropy. February 4, 2014 - Steps down as Microsoft CEO. Spring 2014 - Forbes names Ballmer, with a net worth of $20 billion, number 35 on its annual World's Billionaires list.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/showbiz/tv/sixties-five-things-television/index.html	entertainment	5 surprising things that 1960s TV changed - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 09:54:54 EDT 2014	Experience "The Sixties" on CNN Thursday nights at 9 ET/PT. Discover your '60s personality by taking the CNN Sixties quiz. (CNN) -- It's hard for today's generation to imagine watching TV in the 1960s -- there was no TiVo or DVR (or even VCR). You watched what the networks put on and that was it. And oh yeah, there were only three channels. Yet television made some groundbreaking advancements in this decade as we learned from this week's episode of "The Sixties," and here are a few of them: 1. Television becomes a political force  By 1960, most American households had a television, and that year's Nixon/Kennedy debate was the first televised presidential debate. For many Americans, it was their first introduction to John F. Kennedy. When Kennedy was approached about the idea of debating his political opponent on television, he agreed immediately. Kennedy was comfortable on-camera and sure he'd win. Nixon, however, began to sweat during the televised debate, and the American people began to doubt him. No one realized just how much TV mattered until after those 1960 debates. Later that election season, Kennedy appeared as a guest on NBC's "The Jack Parr Tonight Show"; and when Nixon ran for president again in 1968, he made a brief appearance on the sketch comedy show "Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In" and uttered the show's famous catchphrase, "Sock it to me." It was the first time a presidential candidate had appeared on a comedy show. For the rest of his life, Nixon maintained that his appearance on "Laugh-In" won him the 1968 election. So while TV arguably cost Nixon the election once, it may very have snagged him the election the second time around. If you enjoyed President Barack Obama's appearances on "The Tonight Show" and Letterman, you can thank Richard Nixon. 2. The rise of TV journalism  Before the Kennedy presidency, television was far behind print journalism in terms of sources audiences relied upon for news. But soon, people relied on TV news for the day's headlines as well as information on American troops in Vietnam, particularly the numbers of those killed or wounded. 50 years on, the enduring lessons of JFK's presidency When something major happened on TV, it affected the whole country at the same exact time. TV news was the polar opposite of entertainment TV. The civil rights era, the JFK assassination and the space race all unfolded on TV. As David Brinkley stated, "Television showed the American people TO the American people." During the 1968 Democratic National Convention, 83 million Americans were glued to their television sets as 10,000 antiwar protesters outside the Chicago Hilton chanted, "The whole world is watching! The whole world is watching!" over and over as police pushed the crowd off Chicago's Balbo Drive. 3. TV reaches a broader audience "The TV was the center of the house," recalled Tom Hanks, one of the executive producers of CNN's "The Sixties" series. "I don't remember a time without TV." Remember, there were only three channels (CBS, NBC and ABC) during the decade, and usually only one TV set per household. There were no "for mature audiences only" warnings. The syrupy sitcoms of the 1950s made way for shows such as "The Dick van Dyke Show" and "The Andy Griffith Show." These showcased more realistic situations although there were still the same idealized versions of humanity as the previous decade. Griffith has stated that he put the best parts of himself and the people in his life into the inhabitants of the fictional town of Mayberry to achieve a blend of emotional honesty and laughs. That blueprint served as the benchmark for sitcoms for decades to come. "Leave It to Beaver," which aired from 1957 to 1963, was the first show shot from the perspective of a child, bringing to life those universal embarrassing moments from childhood that kids were certain they'd never overcome, such as bringing home a bad grade or approaching the object of one's affection. That kid-centric model was later replicated in TV shows such as "The Wonder Years" and, more recently, "The Goldbergs." Eventually, shows began blending that "reality" with fantasy, which eventually led to copycats: "The Addams Family" and "The Munsters," "Bewitched" and "I Dream of Jeannie," and "The Beverly Hillbillies" and "Green Acres." 4. The advent of the variety show During the '60s, there were 18 variety shows going on three networks! It's safe to say that television went "variety show crazy" for a while. Sunday night at 8 meant Ed Sullivan; but Dean Martin, Danny Kaye, Danny Thomas and Carol Burnett, to name a few, had eponymous variety-hour programs, too. Beatles + Sullivan = Revolution: Why Beatlemania could never happen today Variety was considered a man's game at the time, but Burnett broke down a lot of walls with her three-wall sketch show. She and her cast mates sang, danced and did pratfalls -- often breaking character and cracking one another up in the process. Kind of a precursor to SNL's Debbie Downer sketch or most of Jimmy Fallon's SNL sketches. Burnett felt that if she was having fun, her audience would, too. 5. Television begins to tackle serious issues  Through a fantasy/sci-fi lens, "The Twilight Zone" creator Rod Serling often told stories of racism and fascism. Similarly, "Star Trek" addressed the notion of a time where social evolution has eradicated prejudice and mankind possesses no bias whatsoever. The space age series even featured TV's first interracial kiss, in which Capt. James Kirk tells Lt. Uhura, a black woman, "Where I come from, size, shape, or color makes no difference." What you might not know about the 1964 Civil Rights Act When Bill Cosby won the Emmy Award for male lead in "I Spy" in 1968, he stated in his acceptance speech, "We need more people in this industry to ... let it be known to the bigots and the racists that they don't count." Incidentally, race was a nonissue in "I Spy." Cosby and actor Robert Culp, who was white, were equals in the series in which they played intelligence officers. BONUS: There actually IS a legit reason why The Flying Nun can "fly" The explanation: She weighs 90 pounds and the combination of her cornet and the wind lifts her. Totally makes sense. Now if only someone could explain how The Professor made all those nifty contraptions -- usually out of coconuts -- but couldn't cobble together a (coconut) raft to get the gang off "Gilligan's Island."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/travel/iceland-westfjords-remote/index.html	travel	On the edge of the world: Iceland's Westfjords - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 10:24:21 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Iceland -- the land of otherworldly vistas, air travel-disrupting volcanoes and polite, stylish Vikings -- already feels remote. In Westfjords, a lonely peninsula that juts out like a thumb into the Denmark Strait toward Greenland, it seems even more so. Here the weather can change in a heartbeat -- sunny afternoons quickly swallowed by icy winds and low clouds filled with fat snowflakes. It's six hours by road from Reykjavik, the Icelandic capital, but be warned: Driving the twisting routes of Westfjord's wind- and snow-whipped mountain passes can be hair-raising. For those who make the journey (a four-wheel-drive vehicle is recommended, as is a sense of adventure) the region's natural features, eating options and activities are worth the white-knuckle ride. Patreksfjordur Patreksfjordur may not be much to look at, but it's only 45 minutes from a ferry terminus (Smidjustigur 3, Stykkisholmur; +354 433 2254) that offers a shortcut to get here. The village offers lodging and eating options that include the new Fosshotel Westfjords (Adalstraeti 100; +354 456 2004). This puts you close to some of the natural wonders of the region, such as the bird cliffs at Latrabjarg and the beautiful beach at Raudasandur. MORE: Descending into an Icelandic volcano There are just a few restaurants in this small fishing town. The best is the Fosshotel's Fjall og Fjara restaurant -- it offers entrees such as foal steak, crispy-skin salmon, and seafood pasta. Isafjordur The diminutive, charming town of Isafjordur (population 2,600) is located on the Skutulsfjordur fjord and is a well equipped hub for visitors exploring the region. Its residents are proud of their remote, rugged location. "A common joke ... is that since there's mountains on all sides, you only need a lid over it," says Haukur Magnusson, an Isafjordur native who edits Reykjavik Grapevine, an English-language magazine. "It feels like ... the mountains are protective of you. It feels like a haven from the outside world, especially to someone who grew up here." Tjoruhusid One of the best seafood restaurants in the Westfjords, and really all of Iceland, Tjoruhusid (Nedstakaupstad 400; +354 456 4419), occupies a beautiful old building at the Isafjordur harbor's edge. Here, Magnus Hauksson and his wife, Ragnheidur Halldorsdottir, serve the catch of the day and fresh vegetables in homey yet refined dishes along with a small selection of beer and wine. There's no menu -- Hauksson cooks whatever is fresh, such as Atlantic catfish in a mustard cream sauce. The atmosphere is warm and comfortable, and the food simple and remarkably delicious. Bolungarvik Just north of Isafjordur, via a long tunnel that bores through a mountainside, lies the village of Bolungarvik. This small community feels like it's at the edge of the world, with stunning and dramatic views of snow-covered plateaus and mountains. A short drive from the town center leads up Bolafjall, a mountain that locals claim offers clear day views across the strait to Greenland. (Don't get too excited -- few days are clear.) It's also a prime place to see the northern lights during late autumn and winter. Museum of Icelandic Sorcery and Witchcraft Siggi Atlason, curator of the Museum of Icelandic Sorcery & Witchcraft (Hofdagata 8-10; +354 897 6525) in the small town of Holmavik, looks the part with his gnome-like hat, wool sweater and pointy beard. Holmavik is located about 220 kilometers (135 miles) southeast of Isafjordur in the Strandir (or "the coast") region of the Westfjords. The museum details Iceland's macabre and bizarre historical belief in the supernatural, with items such as "necropants," trousers reputedly made from human skin that were said to grant the wearer financial success. Fortunately, many of the grizzly oddities in the museum aren't real. "The necropants are a replica," says Atlason. "It is one of the fascinating folklore stories you find in Icelandic culture, but the story is good." Hellulaug Hot Spring This beautiful geothermal hot spring is located near Flokalundur, not far from where the ferry to the Westfjords docks along the south coast. Flokalundur can't really be called a town, but there's somewhere to stay: The Hotel Flokalundur (Vatnsfirdi; +354 456 2011). The hot spring isn't hard to find. There's a parking area with a path down to the spring, which is situated against a cliff looking out at the ocean. MORE: Secrets of Reykjavik's elf school At about 38 degrees C (100 F), it's warm enough to soak in on a winter day, but easier to deal with than some Icelandic hot springs that simmer above 40 C. Latrabjarg These lofty cliffs, Iceland's westernmost point, are about a 90-minute drive from Patreksfjordur. Huge numbers of birds roost here, including puffins, northern gannets, guillemots and razorbills. At 440 meters, these are the highest bird cliffs in Europe and are a paradise for bird watchers and nature enthusiasts. The nearby Hotel Latrabjarg (Fagrihvammur, Orlygshofn; +354 456 1500) is open in summer months. Raudasandur Raudasandur is exactly what it sounds like -- a red sand beach. It stretches for 10 kilometers along the southern shore of the Westfjords. There are almost no facilities here, but it's a great place to walk and enjoy the region's natural beauty and isolation. In summer months, the water warms up to a brisk 16 or 17 C, so it's possible to swim. There are no hotels or guesthouses in the immediate vicinity, but visitors can stay in nearby Patreksfjordur to the north or the Hotel Flokalundur to the east. Sudureyri Outdoor Geothermal Pool It seems like almost every Icelandic town has its own naturally heated geothermal pool, and the one in the village of Sudureyri is a local favorite (Sudureyrartuni; +354 450 8490). The mountainous backdrop can't be beat -- bathers enjoy coffee and ice cream as they soak in one of two hot tubs or after doing laps in the main pool. Jonah Flicker is a freelance writer based in Brooklyn, NY. His work has appeared in publications including the Los Angeles Times, LA Weekly, Paste Magazine, the Village Voice and Reykjavik Grapevine. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/travel/qatar-gulf-airports/index.html	travel	Is the Middle East the new hub of global aviation? - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 10:48:33 EDT 2014	Watch Marketplace Middle East every week on CNN International. Click here for the show times. Doha, Qatar (CNN) -- After a decade of construction and almost four years behind schedule, the Middle East's latest airport destination began full operations earlier this week. Hamad International Airport in Doha, Qatar, will eventually occupy 29 square kilometers (roughly a third of the size of Doha city itself) and comes in at a total cost of $15 billion. The giant facility will have an annual capacity of 50 million passengers as well as public spaces for art exhibitions, a VIP terminal inspired by Arabian sailboats and an aquatic themed mosque. Like an increasing number of oil and gas rich cities in the region, Doha is attempting to diversify its economy to make the most of new trade and tourism opportunities. For the head of Qatar's ambitious national carrier, the much-awaited development couldn't have come soon enough. "It gives us unlimited opportunities," Qatar Airways CEO, Akbar al Baker told CNN. "Doha International Airport was very congested. It was overcrowded. We could not give the standard of service we would prefer our passengers to have on the ground." Analysts say Doha, like its Gulf neighbors, understands the power and potential of aviation to provide a stable long-term industry in the region. "There's a recognition by the (Qatari) government that aviation plays a wider economic role which doesn't only directly support jobs," said John Strickland, director of aviation analytics firm JLS Consulting. "It (also) supports trade, it supports stability to develop tourism and we've seen that that's been done very effectively for example in Dubai," Strickland added. Dubai opened the doors of its second airport, the mammoth Dubai World Central, just last year. There are already plans to increase annual capacity there from the 120 million agreed upon during the initial design phase to over 200 million. "Ultimately we want to create the world's largest airport," said Paul Griffiths, CEO of Dubai Airports. "The current largest airport in the world in Atlanta, Georgia, is about 89 million passengers so you can see the kind of scale and order we are looking at," Griffiths added. In Abu Dhabi, meanwhile, construction is underway for the new Midfield Terminal Complex at Abu Dhabi International Airport. Set to open in 2017, it will have a capacity of 30 million passengers per year alone. Such massive developments ensure competition in the region is stiff. But with so much capacity will there be enough tourism and trade to go around? That remains to be seen, but regional airlines seem convinced and are operating to ambitious expansion schedules themselves. "Step by step we're opening up the U.S. but we're also going to balance that with more cities in Southeast Asia (and) in the Middle East," said James Hogan CEO of Abu Dhabi carrier, Etihad. According to the International Air Transport Association, Etihad and the other Middle Eastern carriers are currently gaining more passengers than any other region. In the first quarter of this year Dubai International Airport (a separate facility to Dubai World Central) became the busiest in the world with more than 18 million passengers, overtaking 16 million at London's Heathrow. On top of this, many analysts believe the Gulf hubs -- situated just 8 hours flying time from two-thirds of the world's population -- are well placed to tap into many new and emerging markets in Asia and Africa. "I don't think the big hub airports in the Gulf are particularly competing with each other, they are more competing with other parts of the world," said John Strickland. "The Gulf is positioned between growing markets in Asia, Africa and Latin America and the airlines who operate out of these hub airports have very long range modern aircraft. "Many other airlines in other parts of the world are simply not equipped .... so, these airports should be able to grow side by side," Strickland added. If that's the case, all that's left is for the Gulf carriers to grab a piece of the lucrative aviation pie in the skies. See also: Answering Egypt's economic riddle See also: Gulf looks to rival Paris as fashion capital See also: Meet the Middle East's king of hotels  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/living/national-spelling-bee/index.html	living	National Spelling Bee has two winners for first time in decades - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 10:36:38 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Ansun Sujoe, 13, and Sriram Hathwar, 14, were declared co-champions of the Scripps National Spelling Bee on Thursday. Hathwar correctly spelled the word "stichomythia" and Sujoe correctly spelled the word "feuilleton." In this year's national championship, 281 spellers from eight countries competed for the title. The contest started Tuesday and finished up Thursday night with the finals broadcast live on ESPN. The youngest competitor was 8 years old. And the oldest was 15 years old, organizers said. READ: The agony and ecstasy of the National Spelling Bee READ: National contest isn't bee-all and end-all  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/world/asia/myanmar-interfaith-marriage-laws/index.html	world	Monks' proposed ban on interfaith marriage raises fears in Myanmar - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 10:30:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Myanmar's government has begun unveiling drafts of proposed laws that critics say are motivated by religious hatred, and could take discrimination against the country's marginalized Muslim minority to new heights. The four bills are based on a petition presented by a group of nationalist Buddhist monks to President Thein Sein in July last year, calling for curbs on interfaith marriage and religious conversions, among other measures. According to the monks, it's a matter of protecting race and religion and encouraging peace. Tensions between the Buddhist majority and Muslim minority in Myanmar, also known as Burma, have been high since deadly violence erupted between the groups in 2012, as the country emerged from decades of authoritarian military rule. A faction of Buddhist nationalists has been criticized, accused of drumming up hostility. The first draft bill -- stemming from a request from a coalition of monks known as the Organization for the Protection of Race, Religion, and Belief -- was published in state media Tuesday, with a call for public comment by June 20. The proposed law would require anyone seeking to change their religion to obtain permission from a number of different local authorities. Targeting Muslims? While the bill applied to all religions, human rights and civil society groups believe it is driven out of a concern to prevent the spread of Islam in the predominantly Buddhist country. "The objective is against Muslim people," said Thin Thin Aung, a member of Women's League of Burma, which belongs to a coalition of women's groups that has campaigned against a proposed bill on interfaith marriage. "Almost all parts of these bills are aimed to target Muslims -- it's based on hatred against this minority religion." The draft of the accompanying interfaith marriage law is yet to be released. But Human Rights Watch and other rights groups, who say they have seen the draft proposal, maintain it calls for Buddhist women to be permitted to marry only Buddhist men, requiring anyone seeking to marry a Buddhist to convert to the religion. The suitor would also be required to obtain the written consent of the woman's parents. The proposal also puts forward a 10-year prison sentence for any non-Buddhist who marries a Buddhist in violation of the law, according to Human Rights Watch. READ: Is Myanmar progress set to unravel?  Matthew Smith, executive director of rights group Fortify Rights, said that any such law would "give legislative voice to Buddhist fears of a Muslim takeover. It's patently discriminatory," he said. "The fact that lawmakers in Myanmar are considering a law like this now should serve as a wake-up call to the international community. Anti-Muslim discrimination is reaching unprecedented heights." But Myanmar's presidential spokesman Ye Htut said that until the draft bill was released, any comment on its content was "just speculation." "The bill committee is considering all the public advice and opinion on their work," he said. "They have to consider articles in the constitution which grant freedom of religion in our country, and consider other international human rights conventions." Limits on family size The other related "race and religion protection" draft bills scheduled to be released soon included ones proposing a ban on polygamy and limits on family size -- also aimed at curbing Muslim population growth, according to rights groups. Muslims are estimated to account for about 5% of Myanmar's nearly 60 million people. Aung said she feared that the bills, if passed, would lead to further division and violence in the country. "Our Burmese society is already ethnically and religiously divided," she said. "We're in a very early democratic transition period. It will lead to more prejudice and discrimination." Mark Farmaner, director of Burma Campaign UK, agreed, saying the laws, if passed, would "significantly undermine prospects for peace." "Ethnic and religious minorities in Burma are already suspicious that the Burman Buddhist dominated central government wants to either assimilate or suppress them," he said. "The interfaith marriage laws play into the greatest fears of ethnic and religious minorities that the government sees the country as a Burman Buddhist country where ethnic and religious minorities are not considered equal." Aung said her coalition also opposed the interfaith marriage law on the grounds that it impinged on the freedom of women to choose who they married, a retrograde step in a country moving towards democracy, and where there were no existing restrictions on a woman's right to wed. The bill was also unnecessary, she said, in that marriages of Buddhist women and Muslim men did not appear to be commonplace. "I don't see an alarming number of Buddhist women marrying Muslims," she said adding that marriages between Buddhists and Christians were more common, and generally viewed as unproblematic. Crimes against humanity? Rohingya Muslims in parts of the western state of Rakhine are already subject to a controversial "two-child policy" that has been criticized by respected Burmese politician and human rights icon Aung San Suu Kyi. Rakhine state has been the site of communal violence between Rohingya and the region's ethnic Rakhine majority, which has displaced tens of thousands of Muslims, forcing them into camps where they are completely reliant on humanitarian aid supplies. In March, Doctors Without Borders -- the largest NGO healthcare provider in Rakhine -- was banned from operating in the state, where it had worked for nearly 20 years, because officials accused it of providing preferential treatment to Rohingya. The developments have triggered a humanitarian crisis, with the U.N.'s Special Rapporteur on Myanmar, Tomas Ojea Quintana, declaring last month that persecution of the group "could amount to crimes against humanity," and Human Rights Watch labeling it "ethnic cleansing." Myanmar authorities have rejected the allegations. READ: Aung San Suu Kyi: Has 'The Lady' lost her voice? "In Rakhine state, there's an argument to be made that the government is failing to uphold its obligation to prevent genocide," said Smith. "Passing a discriminatory law like this wouldn't help the situation there." Will The Bills Pass? All four draft "race and religion" bills are expected to be completed this month and released to the public for feedback, before they are finalized and submitted to Sein for approval by June 30, according to state media. With the Organization for the Protection of Race, Religion and Belief claiming more than one million signatures in support of the bills, and few willing to speak out against them, opponents fear the measures have a strong chance of passing. "Such is the anti-Muslim fervour gripping Burma at the moment that even many [domestic human rights activists have been silent on this issue, with women's groups the only vocal opponents," said Farmaner. Aung said the moral authority of the monks made it difficult to oppose the legislation. Members of the women's coalition that had campaigned against the bill had subsequently been threatened by unknown unidentified extremists. "What the monks say, many people do," she said. "Our group has been called traitors. It's very difficult for ordinary people to speak out." READ: Fears Rakhine extremists could drive out NGOs  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/29/us/spacex-new-spacecraft/index.html	us	SpaceX unveils the Dragon V2, a new spacecraft to transport astronauts - CNN.com	2014/05/29	Thursday May 29 11:36:46 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Space travelers, get ready for a new ride. The Dragon V2 got its grand reveal Thursday night by SpaceX founder Elon Musk, who showed off his company's new spacecraft in a live webcast. While the California-based company has already made its mark on its industry in its 12 years in business, Dragon V2 marks a major milestone as SpaceX's first spacecraft capable of bringing humans to the International Space Station then back to Earth. "It's all around I think a big leap forward in technology," Musk said. "It really takes things to the next level." The storied entrepreneur -- who also founded the Tesla car company and is thought by some to be the inspiration for Tony Stark, or "Iron Man" -- said that "Dragon Version 2," as he called it, can transport as many as seven astronauts for several days. One big upgrade from earlier models is that Dragon V2 will be reusable, which will cut down on costs and open up opportunities for humans to explore. Thanks to propulsion and other technology to slow its re-entry into Earth's orbit and control its descent, Musk said the spacecraft should be able to land most anywhere much like a helicopter. "As long as we continue to throw away rockets and spacecraft, we will never have true access to space," Musk explained. "It will always be incredibly expensive." SpaceX has already done three of its 12 scheduled missions to the International Space Station as part of its $1.6 billion contract with NASA. That includes the first ever connection between that orbiter and a private spacecraft in 2012. But all its trips so far -- including back to Earth, when the SpaceX craft parachuted into the Pacific Ocean -- involved only cargo and were unmanned. Dragon V2 aims to change that. Thursday's event included a dramatic unveiling of the new spacecraft, which stood about 15 feet tall, with a rounded, cone-shaped top. At one point, Musk even went inside and sat in one of its four reclined seats. While such an undertaking likely has been in the works for some time, it comes at a pivotal, uncertain time for the International Space Station and space travel, generally. NASA's agreement with SpaceX -- plus its $1.9 billion deal with Virginia-based Orbital Sciences Corporation for eight missions -- takes on increased importance given Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin's announcement earlier this month that his country does not plan to use the manned orbiter beyond 2020. That announcement as well as ratcheted up tensions between Russia and the West has raised concerns about the space station's future, especially since Russian Soyuz aircraft have become the only way astronauts have been able to get to-and-fro since the end of the U.S. space shuttle program. This comes after President Barack Obama, in 2010, pushed for the expansion of private-sector and commercial space industries as part of his reimagining of the U.S. space program. "We will actually reach space faster and more often under this plan," Obama said, adding this approach would send more astronauts into space over the next decade than previously planned. "By the mid-2030s, I believe we can send people to orbit Mars and bring them safely back to Earth," One team -- Paragon Space Development Corp. and the Inspiration Mars Foundation -- has said it can beat that mark. In February 2013, it detailed plans to send two humans to launch a spacecraft in 2018 that would pass within 100 miles of Mars before coming back to Earth. Group aims to send 2 humans near Mars And the Mars One project announced in August that more than 100,000 people had by then applied to take a one-way trip to the Red Planet. Project: More than 100,000 want to go to Mars  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/africa/sudan-christian-woman-apostasy/index.html	world	Sudanese woman sentenced to die for Christianity gives birth in prison - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 06:49:24 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A Sudanese woman sentenced to die for refusing to renounce her Christianity gave birth to a baby girl in prison Tuesday, her lawyers said. Meriam Yehya Ibrahim, 27, delivered her baby at a women's prison in Khartoum, but her husband was not allowed to be present for the birth, sources told CNN. They asked not to be named for safety reasons. Ibrahim was convicted of apostasy, or the renunciation of faith, about two weeks ago while she was eight months pregnant. A Sudanese lawyer filed an appeal last week to reverse the verdict by the lower court. She is in prison with her 20-month-old son, but Sudanese officials have said the toddler is free to leave any time, according to her lawyer, Mohamed Jar Elnabi. Her husband, Daniel Wani, is a U.S. citizen who uses a wheelchair and "totally depends on her for all details of his life," her lawyer said. The appeal The appeals court in Khartoum will issue a ruling on the case in the next week, but it will first ask the lower court to submit the documents it used to make the ruling, according to her lawyer. Once that's done, it will issue a case number, he said. "We will continue checking with the appeals court, but Inshallah (Allah willing) ... the appeals court will reverse the sentence and set her free," he said. Christian or Muslim? Ibrahim says her father was a Sudanese Muslim and her mother was Ethiopian Orthodox. Her father left when she was 6, and she was raised as a Christian. The court had warned her to renounce her Christianity by May 15, but she held firm to her beliefs. Sudanese Parliament speaker Fatih Izz Al-Deen said claims that Ibrahim was raised as non-Muslim are untrue. She was raised in an Islamic environment, and her brother, a Muslim, filed the complaint against her, according to Al-Deen. The complaint alleges that she went missing for several years, and her family was shocked to find out she married a Christian, according to her lawyer. However, because her father was Muslim, the courts considered her one too, which would mean her marriage to a non-Muslim man is void. Attempts to contact Sudan's justice minister and foreign affairs minister for comment were unsuccessful. 100 lashes In addition to the death sentence, the court convicted Ibrahim of adultery and sentenced her to 100 lashes. The Parliament speaker has said the verdict is not final and will go through all the judicial stages to reach the constitutional court. Worldwide condemnation Rights groups and foreign embassies worldwide condemned the verdict. "The fact that a woman could be sentenced to death for her religious choice, and to flogging for being married to a man of an allegedly different religion, is abhorrent and should never be even considered," said Manar Idriss, Amnesty International's Sudan researcher. Katherine Perks with the African Centre for Justice and Peace Studies said the verdict goes against Sudan's "own constitution and commitments made under regional and international law." Foreign embassies in Khartoum, including those of the United States, United Kingdom and Canada, urged the government to reverse course. In past cases involving pregnant or nursing women, the Sudanese government waited until the mother weaned her child before executing any sentence, said Christian Solidarity Worldwide spokeswoman Kiri Kankhwende. Opinion: Why marrying for love should never mean death  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/meast/syria-american-jihadi/index.html	world	U.S.: Jihadi in suicide bombing video in Syria was from Florida - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 12:12:19 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- A radical Islamist fighter who carried out a suicide bombing in Syria was a U.S. citizen, two U.S. government officials told CNN late Thursday. The man identified as Abu Hurayra Al-Amriki in videos on YouTube, which showed the blast, grew up and went to school in Florida, the officials said. Neither official would disclose the bomber's real name. Investigators are interviewing family members. The bomber is among a group of Americans that the FBI, the CIA and others have been trying to keep tabs on since they went to Syria some months ago to join extremists in the fight against the Syrian government.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/08/08/travel/12-sunsets/index.html	travel	Manhattanhenge and 12 other superb sunset spots around the world - CNN.com	2013/08/08	Thursday Aug 8 08:20:23 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- One of the world's best urban sunsets nearly happened in New York on May 29, 2014. Unfortunately, cloud cover spoiled the first "Manhattanhenge" event of the year, the term coined by astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson to describe when the sun sets in perfect alignment with the city's street grid. He created the term based on Stone Henge in the UK, the ancient landmark that highlights the sun in similar fashion during the winter and summer solstices. Luckily, Manhattanhenge is happening again on May 30 and July 11-12. And if clouds spoil all all those chances to snap pics of a slowly setting sun beside the Empire State Building, console yourself with these other amazing sunset pics, taken around the world. We'd love to hear about your own favorite sunset spots too. Tell us about them in the comments section below. 1. U Bein Bridge, Mandalay, Myanmar When sun sets on the world's longest teak bridge, one of the world's most picturesque sunset views begins. U Bein Bridge, named after former mayor U Bein, is a 1.2-kilometer wooden bridge across Taungthaman Lake. The bridge, busy by day with Buddhist monks and locals, seems to relax when the sun goes down. Daily flights connect Mandalay with other major cities in Myanmar. MORE: An insider's tour of Myanmar 2. Maasai Mara National Reserve, Kenya The word "magnificent" could have been invented in Maasai Mara. At dusk, the expanse of savannah appears to be stained red; bewitching sunsets complement the land perfectly. The best time to come is July to October, when the annual migration of zebra, Thomson's gazelle and wildebeest come to the Mara from the Serengeti. Lodges, camps and balloon safaris are available inside the reserve. It takes 45 minutes to fly to Maasai Mara from Nairobi and two hours from Mombasa, Diani Beach or Malindi. For more info, visit Massai Mara National Reserve's website. MORE: 10 things you probably didn't know you can do in Kenya 3. Uluru and Kata Tjuta, Northern Territory, Australia The domed Uluru (aka Ayers Rock) rises 348 meters above the desert plain, extends five kilometers beneath it and has a circumference of 9.4 kilometers. Kata Tjuta (aka The Olgas) is a range of 36 variously sized rock domes 36 kilometers to the west of Uluru. Dominated by these giant wonders, the national park is a UNESCO World Heritage area. The Uluru rock appears to change colors as the sun beams over the desert landscape, hitting Kata Tjuta in the background. Daily flights to the Northern Territory are available from major cities in Australia. MORE: How to survive in the wilds of Australia 4. Aci Trezza, Catania, Italy Aci Trezza is a fishing village on the east coast of Sicily. It's the town where Giovanni Verga set his 1881 novel "I Malavoglia" ("The House by the Medlar Tree"). The Islands of the Cyclops -- three column-shaped basalt rocks -- are the main attraction for visitors. According to legend, these rocks were thrown by Polyphemus at Ulysses. The Mediterranean here sparkles with golden sunlight at dusk. Aci Trezza is about 10 kilometers from Catania. Daily shuttle buses and trains from Catania to Aci Trezza are available. MORE: 10 things Italy does better than anywhere else 5. Grand Canyon, Arizona "I believe in evolution. But I also believe, when I hike the Grand Canyon and see it at sunset, that the hand of God is there also," said U.S. senator John McCain, ever the politician. No matter their religious beliefs, millions of people visit the the 445-kilometer long, 29-kilometer-wide Grand Canyon each year to catch a sunset. Hopi Point, where you can see layers of rock, is one of the best places to photograph it. Daily flights, buses and trains to Grand Canyon National Park run from Phoenix, Flagstaff and Las Vegas. MORE: Yellowstone geyser puts on surprise show 6. Dubai, U.A.E. There's nothing like experiencing a desert sunset atop a camel in Dubai. Sand dunes, lolloping gait and distant Dubai skyline create a classic Arabian sunset. Failing that, you can consider a view from the thousand-meter-long Jumeirah Beach, a white sandy stretch along the Arabian Gulf with private beaches and top-notch facilities belonging to luxury hotels like The Ritz-Carlton -- it's open to the public for a small fee. MORE: Never before seen photos of Dubai's stunning skyline 7. West Lake, Hangzhou, China West Lake boasts an exquisite sunset scene, with Leifeng Pagoda illuminated by the final rays of the day. The pagoda became famous with the spread of the legend of Madam White Snake, said to have been jailed in the pagoda for decades. The original Leifeng Pagoda was built in the year 975 to celebrate the birth of the Wu Kingdom's prince. It collapsed in 1924. The five-sided, eight-floor pagoda was rebuilt in its original lake-side location in 2002. Daily flights and trains to Hangzhou are available from major cities in China MORE: The oddest-looking hotel you'll see this year 8. Guanshan, Kenting, Taiwan A Guanshan sunset is one of the great attractions of southern Taiwan. Guanshan is a 152-meter-high mountain inside Kenting National Park -- it offers the best viewpoint from which to see the Hengchun Peninsula, a popular tourist spot in the south of the island. The peninsula has no train or highway, making it a natural paradise. What it has is beautiful hot springs and forests. The pavilion adjacent to Fude Temple (Gaoshanyen) on Guanshan Trail offers the best viewing point for sunsets. Daily flights and trains to Kenting are available from major cities in Taiwan. Kenting National Park is open 11 a.m.-7 p.m. daily. MORE: Insider Guide -- best of Taipei 9. Oia, Santorini, Greece The hilltop town of Oia is a well-known sunset destination. The porous volcanic rock and white and blue houses, backed by a crystal Aegean Sea, make for one of the travel world's most photographed scenes. People flow into every restaurant, nook and cranny along the cliffs in the afternoon to wait for the majestic sunsets. Daily flights to Santorini are available from Athens. MORE: Greek islands consider segregated tourist zones 10. Rapa Nui (Easter Island), Chile About 3,700 kilometers off the Chilean coast in the Pacific Ocean, on the easternmost Polynesian island, the enigmatic stone statues of the Rapa Nui culture have for centuries been seeing off the sun with ancient stoicism (their backs are turned to the sea). Though the moai (as the statues are called) haven't been around forever -- they were erected between AD 1400 and 1600 -- taking in a sunset with them sure feels like an eternal experience. It's an event -- and photograph -- cherished by every visitor to the island. MORE: 5 luxury vacations in Chile  11. Phnom Bakheng, Angkor, Cambodia Known for its "sunset on the hill," Phnom Bakheng is a popular place for a Cambodian-style sunset. The Hindu temple built at the end of ninth century is on top of a hill, giving great views of its more famous sibling, Angkor Wat. Take an elephant ride and you can avoid climbing those steep steps yourself. It's best to arrive early to get a good spot. The temple closes at 6.30 p.m. Phnom Bakheng is 1.5 kilometers from Angkor Wat. Daily flights to Angkor Wat, Siem Reap are available from major cities, including Bangkok, Shanghai and Singapore. MORE: Inside Cambodia's stunning new temple discoveries 12. Maui, Hawaii You actually thought we were going to leave out Hawaii? Just about any spot along the coast of America's 50th state makes for a poster-worthy evening photo, but the long, white sand beach, crashing waves and prominent cinder cone of Pu'u Ola'i keep sunset lovers coming back to Makena State Park on Maui. Even if you don't catch one of the islands' famed "green flash" sunsets (Ever seen one? Leave a comment below), it's hard to feel anything but deep satisfaction when the sun sets over Maui and the tiki bars start getting crowded. MORE: Fearless photog risks limbs for perfect wave pics Raemin Zhang is an editorial intern for CNN.     Story originally published August 2013, updated May 2014.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/asia/india-gang-rape/index.html	world	3 arrested over rape and hanging of 2 girls in India - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 02:04:47 EDT 2014	New Delhi (CNN) -- A police officer and two other people were arrested after an alleged gang-rape that left two teenage girls dead in an Indian village, authorities said Friday. The bodies of the two girls were left hanging from a tree, sparking outrage in the area and beyond. The victims were cousins, ages 14 and 16. Angry villagers protested around the bodies, preventing police from taking them down from the tree for about 15 hours Wednesday, the day after the attack, said Mukesh Saxena, a local police official. A photo from the village, in the state of Uttar Pradesh, showed the body of one girl, dressed in a green tunic and pants, hanging from the tree. A large group of people, many of them young children, were gathered around the grisly scene. The cremation of the girls' remains took place late Wednesday night per Hindu customs, Saxena said, adding that the armed police officers have been deployed in the village to prevent any further unrest. The girls' family accused three brothers of carrying out the rape and killing. Two of the brothers are now in custody, said R.K.S. Rathore, a deputy-inspector general of police. One was arrested Thursday night, he said. Police are still searching for the third brother. Amid allegations that local police sided with the suspects and delayed the registration of the case, Saxena said three officers have been temporarily suspended for negligence of duty, and one has been arrested. He said the girls had gone out into a field to relieve themselves Tuesday night when they were grabbed by the attackers. Some people saw the abduction but were unable to stop it, he said, citing eyewitnesses. READ: Covering the rape case that changed India READ: The girl whose rape changed a country READ: India's 'Womanifesto:' How central are women's rights to this year's elections? CNN's Harmeet Shah Singh reported from New Delhi, and Jethro Mullen wrote from Hong Kong. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/politics/va-hospitals-shinseki/index.html	politics	Shinseki faces homeless veterans' group; calls for his resignation - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 03:17:03 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- With calls for him to resign hanging over his head, Veterans Affairs' Secretary Eric Shinseki on Friday will face representatives of people particularly vulnerable to his agency's medical failings. The National Coalition for Homeless Veterans has booked Shinseki as its featured speaker at its annual conference in Washington. He will stand before them while lawmakers consider whom to hold responsible for a scandal involving the treatment of ailing veterans. Long delays in medical care cost some of them their lives, and it has recently come to light that at least one hospital tied employee bonuses to patient wait times. President Barack Obama appears to be asking Shinseki to set the stage for his own departure, perhaps as soon as Friday. Late Thursday, a ranking Democratic Congressman on the Veterans' Affairs Committee joined colleagues from both sides of the aisle to demand he throw in the towel. "Democrats and Republicans alike, in tandem with our Veteran Service Organizations and the millions of Americans who have served our nation, all want to get to the bottom of what exactly is broken with the VA system, and what we can do to fix it," Mike Michaud said in a statement. But Shinseki has become the focal point, and it is time for him to go, so progress can be made, he said. "The systemic failures in our VA system are inexcusable and must be fixed immediately so that this never happens again," he said. A number of Democratic senators -- many of them facing rough re-election battles this year -- have joined the bipartisan chorus urging the secretary to resign or the President to fire him. "The inspector general's preliminary report makes it clear that the systemic problems at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs are so entrenched that they require new leadership to be fixed," said Mark Udall of Colorado, the first Senate Democrat to call for a change at the top. List of senators calling for Shinseki resignation Criminal investigation Resignation may be just a prelude to the fallout to come. There have also been calls for a criminal investigation into at times deadly delays in care at Veterans Affairs hospitals. Obama is waiting for an internal audit he ordered from Shinseki on the growing scandal before deciding whom to hold accountable, White House spokesman Jay Carney told reporters. Carney stopped short of saying Obama is standing by the embattled secretary, pointing instead to the President's recent statement that Shinseki would likely not be interested in continuing to serve if he believed he let veterans down. The President found the report deeply troubling, and a White House official speaking on the condition of anonymity told CNN that Shinseki was on "thin ice" with Obama. Some lawmakers in Congress were incensed after Wednesday's release of a preliminary VA inspector general's report that described a "systemic" practice of manipulating appointments and wait lists at the Veterans Affairs medical center in Phoenix. The VA inspector general reported that at least 1,700 military veterans waiting to see a doctor were never scheduled for an appointment or were placed on a waiting list at the Phoenix VA, raising the question of just how many more may have been "forgotten or lost" in the system. CNN broke the scandal CNN reported exclusively last month that, according to sources, at least 40 American veterans died while waiting to be seen at the Phoenix VA. CNN also obtained an e-mail that an employee at a Wyoming clinic of the VA wrote saying that employees were instructed to "game the system" to make the clinic appear more efficient. Rep. Steve Israel of New York, the head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, is among those calling for a criminal investigation by the Department of Justice. "I want to know if anybody at the VA doctored papers, engaged in a cover up, withheld care from veterans," he told CNN, adding the demand in the form of a letter was hand delivered Thursday to Attorney General Eric Holder's office. "They need to be investigated They need to be prosecuted. They need to be fired." Republican Rep. Jeff Miller of Florida, chairman of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, made a similar demand of the Justice Department. "I think the facts are too many now for them to look the other way," he said. The U.S. Department of Justice is reviewing the VA inspector general's report but has not formally opened an investigation, Peter Carr, an agency spokesman, has told CNN. The VA's troubled history Deaths acknowledged The VA has acknowledged 23 deaths nationwide due to delayed care. The VA's acting inspector general, Richard Griffin, told a Senate committee in recent weeks that his investigation so far had found a possible 17 deaths of veterans waiting for care in Phoenix. But he added that there was no evidence excessive waiting was the reason. Among the findings at the Phoenix VA, investigators determined that one consequence of manipulating appointments for the veterans was understating patient wait times, a factor considered in VA employee bonuses and raises, the report said. Miller believes the actions may be in part about money for "VA bureaucrats." "Why else would somebody work so hard to manipulate the lists?" Miller said. The issue of patient wait times is not an overall performance factor ordered by the VA, Dr. Thomas Lynch, the VA's assistant deputy undersecretary for clinical operations, told Miller's committee. The factors tied to bonuses and raises are decided by each VA network, Lynch said. The VA inspector general's report did not offer any further details about financial incentives. Shinseki finds himself in a firestorm Shinseki "not waiting" In an opinion piece published Thursday in USA Today, Shinseki wrote that he found the report "reprehensible" and that he's "not waiting to set things straight." "I immediately directed the Veterans Health Administration ... to contact each of the 1,700 veterans in Phoenix waiting for primary care appointments in order to bring them the care they need and deserve," Shinseki wrote. Shinseki reiterated other steps he's taken, including putting the leadership at the Phoenix facility on leave and ordering a "nationwide audit of all other major VA health care facilities to ensure understanding of, and compliance with, our appointment policy." Some question whether removing Shinseki would address the core problems at the VA or simply serve as a distraction for now. "Is him resigning going to get us to the bottom of the problem? Is it going to help us find out what's really going on?," asked House Speaker John Boehner, the chamber's top Republican, adding that his answer so far was "no." House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi also warned against targeting only Shinseki. She, too, has joined the push for a criminal investigation of the VA problems, saying "certainly what was done was dishonest." VA pledges faster appointments CNN's Jason Hanna, Jim Acosta, Wolf Blitzer, Jake Tapper, Eliott C. McLaughlin and Greg Seaby contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/travel/brazil-team-plane/index.html	travel	Brazil graffiti plane: Football team plane spray painted - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 03:15:19 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Add yet another reason to consider Brazilians the world's coolest nationality. They take their national soccer team's plane for the World Cup and turn it into a work of brilliant graffiti art. Identical twins and breakdancers-turned-graffiti artist duo Os Gemeos used 1,200 cans of spray paint to emblazon their signature colorful style over a Boeing 737. Known for the yellow-skinned characters they've said are influenced by their dreams, Octavio and Gustavo Pandolfo are among Brazil's most popular contemporary artists. Brazilian low-cost carrier GOL commissioned the plane, which will fly the Brazilian national soccer team around the country during the FIFA World Cup starting June 12. MORE: Crazy, gaudy, clever airplane paint jobs Although they didn't have the World Cup in mind when they first envisioned the project, the idea to paint the plane came from the artists themselves, said the twins in an interview with artnet. The design theme the twins were tasked with were "Brazilianness, democracy and diversity." The plane will be part of the GOL fleet for an additional two years after the World Cup. More photos and a video of the twins at work on the plane can be seen on GOL's blog. MORE: Insider Guide: Best of Rio de Janeiro  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/06/18/world/meast/syria-fast-facts/index.html	world	Syria Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/06/18	Tuesday Jun 18 10:51:09 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Syria is a Middle Eastern country sharing a border with Lebanon, Israel, Jordan, Iraq and Turkey. The Syrian uprising began in March 2011. As of August 2013, more than 100,000 Syrians have been killed, according to the United Nations. The death toll is no longer being updated by the United Nations due to methodology issues. About Syria:  (from the CIA World Factbook)  Area: 185,180 sq km, slightly larger than North Dakota Population:  17,951,639 (July 2014 est.) Median age: 23.3 years old Capital: Damascus (2.5 million) Ethnic Groups: Arab 90.3%, Kurds, Armenians, and other 9.7% Religion: Sunni Muslim 74%, other Muslim (includes Alawite, Druze) 16%, and Christian (various denominations) 10% GDP: $107.6 billion (2011 estimate) GDP per capita: $5,100 (2011 estimate) Unemployment: 17.8% (2013 estimate) Timeline:  1517-1918 - Part of the Ottoman Empire. 1920 - The League of Nations puts Syria under French control. April 17, 1946 - Independence is declared after French troops leave the country. 1949-1958 - A series of coups leads to instability in the country. February 1, 1958 - Syria and Egypt merge, creating the United Arab Republic. September 28, 1961 - Syria secedes from the United Arab Republic. 1967 - Syria loses the Golan Heights to Israel during the Six Day War. November 13, 1970 - Minister of Defense Hafez al-Assad stages a bloodless coup. 1976-2005 - Approximately 17,000 Syrian troops are stationed in neighboring Lebanon. 1979-present - Syria is placed on the U.S. State Department's list of state sponsors of terrorism. June 10, 2000 - Hafez al-Assad dies. July 10, 2000 - Bashar al-Assad is elected president by referendum, winning 97% of the vote. He is reelected in 2007. March 2011-present - An ongoing civil war in Syria claims more than 100,000 lives. January 22, 2014 - At the Geneva II conference, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says the path to a peaceful Syria must involve the world community, but cannot include Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Upcoming Events:  June 3, 2014 - Scheduled date of presidential elections.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/travel/best-usa-wildlife-safaris/index.html	travel	American safaris: Best places to see wildlife in the U.S. - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 04:05:07 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Many American travelers find themselves stunned by the richness of wildlife they observe abroad. Yet they don't realize how much of their homeland is comprised of wild, untamed badlands full of the kinds of native fauna they name football teams after. If you're in the United States with European amounts of holiday time, you can be leisurely about getting around to each of America's 3,000 or so wild animal species. Most of us, however, must take more of a Walmart approach to checking off the nation's wildlife if we want to get through the list before we're 800. You won't see any zoos or controlled sanctuaries on this list. If you want to spot wildlife indigenous to the USA -- or just want to know how to avoid them -- these are the places in America where you're likeliest to do it. Felines Yosemite National Park (California) The best way to observe an American wildcat while keeping your soft tissue intact is in a zoo or basketball arena. But there are plenty of natural big cat habitats nationwide for the adventurous, and Yosemite National Park is among the most representative. Your chances of actually spotting one is slim, however, being that they're solitary (often apex) predators -- being unseen is kinda their thing. So while you're looking for them, they're probably looking at you. Still, they're likeliest to appear at dawn and dusk, the most active times for their favorite foods -- deer and elk for big cats, jackrabbits and rodents for the smaller guys -- making any list of cat-watching locations a de facto list of those, too. Where to find individual wildcat species Mountain lion, Idaho County (Idaho) Once prevalent throughout the mainland United States, the cougar (aka, panther/puma/catamount) is largely isolated to a dozen or so western states and Florida, none more imposing than those in the Idaho panhandle, according to Game & Fish magazine. Bobcat, Kiawah Island (South Carolina)  Found in 47 states, this is America's most common wildcat (population: 1 to 2 million and rising). Sightings are usually rare, but on Kiawah Island, bobcats are uncommonly conspicuous. Ocelot, Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge (Texas) It's believed that there are fewer than 50 remaining in the United States, all of them here. Bonus species: The birds of the Lower Rio Grande Valley. Jaguar, Saguaro National Park (Arizona) Saguaro National Park outside Tucson is less an official address than a pied--terre for visiting jaguars from a population that's actually just south of the U.S.-Mexico border. Bear Alaska Peninsula Brown, Kodiak and grizzly bears are really all the same species, and three neighboring parks form a veritable smorgasbear of all three. Brown bear From June to August, the world's largest concentration of wild brown bears gathers at Alaska's McNeil River State Game Sanctuary and Refuge to gorge on salmon. Bonus species: Bald eagle, moose, caribou, arctic wolf, wolverine, red fox, harbor seal, waterfowl and various sea birds. Grizzly bear Right beside McNeil, some of the biggest grizzlies ever recorded have been spotted at the Katmai National Park & Preserve. This inland subspecies is typically smaller, having farther to roam for less food than its coastal counterpart. Bonus species: Humpback whale, orca, coyote, lynx, otter, mink, tundra hare, bat, beaver, marmot, sea lion, more than 40 fish species and 137 species of bird. Kodiak bear Offshore from Katmai is a bear subspecies distinguished by its island geography. Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge is home to the world's largest bears, which became isolated from their brethren across the bay after the last ice age. Bonus species: Only five other mammal species are native to the island, but eight more have been introduced, including deer, goat, elk, reindeer and snowshoe hare. Where to find other bear species Black bear, Great Smoky Mountains National Park (North Carolina/Tennessee) The 1,500 black bears around Cades Cove loop between spring and fall are more accustomed to audiences than the Rolling Stones. Sunrise and sunset are the best times to catch 'em in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Bonus species: Salamander, elk, deer, bat, coyote, wolf, raccoon, otter, bobcat, wild hog, turtle, 23 species of snake, 67 species of fish and 240 species of bird. Polar bear, Kaktovik and Barrow (Alaska) Tours to see these majestic maritime bears leave during the ice-free (and getting freer) period between August and October. U.S. polar-bearing doesn't get much more possible than this. Reptiles Houston There are four species of venomous snake found in the United States and they're all found in and around Houston: rattlesnake, cottonmouth, copperhead and coral. If those don't kill you, the petroleum emissions or rib plates eventually will. Bonus species: Coyote, bobcat, fox, deer, alligator, armadillo, turtle, bat, hawk, owl and nearly 130 other species of bird. Gila monster, Snow Canyon State Park (Utah) Rare and endangered, the gila is incredibly difficult to find, but Snow Canyon State Park is one of the few places where it still exists. April-May is the peak of its activity. Bonus species: Desert tortoise, coyote, fox, quail, peregrin falcon, roadrunner and tree frog. Alligator/crocodile, Southern Glades Wildlife and Environmental Area (Florida) South Florida is the northernmost point of the crocodile's range, making the southernmost point in the Everglades likeliest to host both. Florida is the only place where these two species coexist. Bonus species: Florida panther, dolphin and more than 350 species of bird. Tortoise, Red Cliffs Desert Reserve (Utah) Consider yourself lucky if you spot one; they spend 90% of their lives underground or in shelters. Bonus species: Gila monster, mountain lion, sidewinder, bobcat, rattlesnake, coyote, rabbit, muskrat, deer, fox and at least 50 species of bird. Horns and Antlers Yellowstone National Park (Wyoming) When you think of American wildlife, these lumbering land leviathans are probably what most often come to mind, and there's no getting around the 2,000-pound buffalo in the room that is Yellowstone, the world's first national park. On parade is a one-stop shop of bison, mule deer, elk, bighorn sheep, mountain goats and pronghorn antelope, forming the largest concentration of mammals in the lower 48. Bonus species: black and grizzly bear, Canada lynx, coyote, mountain lion, salamander, spotted frog, wolverine, bull snake, rubber boa, bobcat, wolf, 148 species of bird and 3 million annual varieties of gawking tourist. Where to find individual species Bison, Custer State Park (South Dakota) Reintroduced after near-extinction at the turn of the last century, 1,300 bison -- possibly the world's largest publicly-owned herd -- now roam Custer State Park. Badlands National Park, with its rams, badgers and prairie dogs, is just a two-hour drive away. Bonus species: Pronghorn antelope, burro, mountain goat, sheep, deer, elk, wild turkey. Deer, Interstate 80 (Nationwide) The once-endangered white-tailed deer is now ubiquitous throughout the United States, with total numbers estimated at more than 20 million. From San Francisco to Teaneck, New Jersey, drivers on I-80 see more of them than legal lane changes. Caribou, Selkirk Mountains (Idaho) Roughly two-thirds of Idaho is public land, affording ample roaming room for the last woodland reindeer herd in the lower 48. Bonus species: Grizzly bear, lynx, wolf, moose, wolverine, elk and mountain lion. Elk, National Elk Refuge (Wyoming) Every winter, roughly 7,500 elk migrate to this 25,000-acre sanctuary neighboring the city of Jackson and Grand Teton National Park. Bonus species: Mountain lion, bison, raven, wolf, deer, pronghorn antelope. Pronghorn antelope, Red Desert (Wyoming) Home to the largest migratory herd in the lower 48. On a long enough timeline, a pronghorn can outrun a cheetah, which is vital to expediting the longest land migration in the continental United States. Bonus species: Mountain lion, deer, wild horse, rabbit, prairie dog, badger and the world's largest desert elk population. Moose, Moose Alley (New Hampshire) The so-called Moose Alley, the northern section of U.S. Route 3 between Pittsburg, New Hampshire, and the Canadian border, is like a year-round moose Mardi Gras. Bonus species: Angry logging truckers. Wild Horse, Outer Banks (North Carolina) Technically, the Outer Banks are home to feral horses, as all truly wild horses in North America (those not descended from domesticated stock) are extinct. But the horses on this 200-mile-long stretch of barrier islands have been bucking since the Spanish abandoned them here in the 1500s. Bonus species: Nearly 400 varieties of bird. Birds Lower Rio Grande Valley (Texas) There are more than 800 bird species in the United States, and you can knock out more than half of them at this patchwork of parcels both private and public that represent 11 different ecosystems. Comprised of the Laguna Atascosa, Lower Rio Grande and Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuges, this wildlife corridor hosts at least 520 species -- 400 on about 2,000 acres of Santa Ana alone -- including chachalacas, osprey, heron, tropical parula, spoonbills, orioles, egrets, roadrunners, kingfishers, robins, cranes, Canada geese, kites, least grebes, kiskadees, whistling ducks and raptors like the gray hawk and Aplomado falcon. Bonus species: Ocelot (Laguna Atascosa). Where to find other individual bird species Bald eagle, Klamath Basin National Wildlife Refuge Complex (California) There are more than 300 species at this migration stop for millions of birds, including America's national animal. Golden eagle, Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area (Idaho) The golden eagle typically migrates seasonally, but approximately 30 pairs nest in this 600,000-acre park just south of Boise, year-round. Condor, Vermilion Cliffs National Monument (Arizona) America's largest land bird is critically endangered, but of the 230 or so remaining in the wild, approximately one-third of them circle the Vermilion Cliffs. Puffin, Machias Seal Island (Maine) Machias Seal Island is one of the few puffin colonies that allows visitors during spring and summer breeding. The United States and Canada each claim sovereignty, adding a dimension of geopolitical tension to your bird-watching. Big "fish" OK, so none of these species actually qualify as fish, but ... Shark, New Smyrna Beach (Florida) The state of Florida led the world in attacks last year and Volusia County, home of New Smyrna Beach, led the state. Bonus species: Right whale, manatee, sea turtle and hundreds of species of bird. Dolphins, Ko Olina, Oahu (Hawaii) Hawaiian spinner dolphins feed at night and throng this spot on Oahu's west coast by the dozens during the day. The recent arrival of a Disney resort may apply urgency to any dolphin watching plans. Bonus species: Whales, monk seals and green sea turtles. Whales, Glacier Bay National Park (Alaska) Seasonal humpbacks, grays and porpoises combine with year-round orcas for one of the richest cetacean environments in the world. It's like the Yellowstone of maritime mammals. Bonus species: Grizzly bear, sea lion, lynx, mountain goats, seals, otters and 274 species of bird. Canines The wild wolf population in the lower 48 has grown from less than 300 just 30 years ago to more than 4,000 today, thanks to restoration efforts that began around the Great Lakes. Gray wolf, Ely, Minnesota The state of Minnesota has the largest gray wolf population outside of Alaska, and the northeastern part of the state -- specifically Ely and the International Wolf Center -- is its most densely inhabited. Bonus species: Bald eagle, black bear, moose, beaver, loon, red fox, deer and up to 100 species of bird. Red wolf, Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge (North Carolina) Extinct in the wild for all intents and purposes by 1980, the reintroduction of red wolves raised in captivity has yielded a modest rebound of about 100 overall. Bonus species: Alligator, black bear, waterfowl and more than 250 species of bird. Sea Mammals Children's Pool beach (La Jolla, California) A small, turbulent stretch of coast off La Jolla made recreational by the construction of a sea wall 80 years ago has since become a year-round haven for harbor seals and California sea lions. Legal wrangling over use of, and access to, the beach finally rode its course recently, ensuring scores of seals bathing, lazing and spawning right beside beachgoers. Bonus species: Fecal bacteria. Where to find other sea mammals Walrus, Point Lay (Alaska) The good news is that the walruses of the Chukchi Sea -- the only place in the United States to see wild walrus -- have recently taken to hauling out by the thousands onto this observable tract of shoreline. The bad news is that it's because the sea ice they're supposed to be floating on is melting. Bonus species: Gray and bowhead whale, polar bear, ice seal and at least 15 species of bird. Manatee, Crystal River National Wildlife Refuge (Florida) The largest purported herd in the United States -- not just of manatees, but also meddling guides and tourists -- descends each winter on Three Sisters Springs' 72-degree waters. Some even stay year round. (The manatees, that is.) Otter, Muscatatuck National Wildlife Refuge (Indiana) Since the reintroduction of the species to the region 20 years ago, the population has rebounded. So much, in fact, that some area landowners have received permits to trap and/or kill them. Bonus species: Deer, quail, wood duck, rabbit, wild turkey, bald eagle and more than 280 other species of bird. Tiny terrors What they lack in the gargantuan, plodding mass of a longhorn or buffalo, these creatures more than make up in nightmare-dominating fright and ferocity. Badger, Great Basin National Park (Nevada) Ironically not concentrated most in Wisconsin (whose state university's mascot is the badger), but rather in the largest and coldest desert in North America. Sightings are rare, with the badger being a swifter digger than a human with a shovel. Bonus species: Mountain lion, jackrabbit, deer, elk and pronghorn antelope. Wolverine, Glacier National Park (Montana) Wolverines are notoriously elusive, but may be easiest to find in the winter in magnificent Glacier National Park, when the snow cover more easily reveals their movements. Bonus species: Grizzly bear, gray wolf, elk, lynx, wolverine, cougar, mountain goat, bighorn sheep, painted turtle and more than 260 species of bird. Bat, Congress Avenue Bridge (Austin, Texas) The largest bat population in the world (20 million) is actually just an hour and a half away at Bracken Cave. But the nightly spectacle of more than a million dormant bats spontaneously diffusing from just above street level at Austin's Congress Avenue Bridge into the sky like a fog of chunky black spray paint is the stuff lifetime phobias are made of.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/europe/ukraine-crisis/index.html	world	Ukraine's President-elect vows vengeance over helicopter attack - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:08:53 EDT 2014	Donetsk, Ukraine (CNN) -- Ukraine's President-elect Petro Poroshenko has vowed to punish the "bandits" who shot down a military helicopter as the government's efforts to rein in pro-Russia separatists continue. "The deaths of the military troops in Slovyansk are pain our whole nation is feeling," Poroshenko posted on his Facebook page late Thursday. "While mourning with rest of the Ukraine, I give my condolences to the families and loved ones of the fallen heroes. Crimes of the bandits will not be left unpunished." Militants in the rebel stronghold of Slovyansk, in the Donetsk region, claimed responsibility for downing the helicopter, a spokesman for the separatists said. A dozen servicemen died, authorities said, including a general. The separatist unrest that has gripped Ukraine in recent weeks has been centered in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. Acting Ukrainian Defense Minister Mikhail Koval said Friday that the country's military would continue their "anti-terrorism" operation until the east has been fully stabilized, Russia's state-run RIA Novosti news agency reported. "We will work until this region starts living and functioning normally, and the people there feel safe," Koval is quoted as saying. Russia has urged the Kiev government to halt its military operation against pro-Russia separatists. Moscow has, however, said it will respect Sunday's presidential election results. Grenade blast Many are now looking at Poroshenko, whose inauguration is expected next week, to restore peace and stability to the divided nation. Amid simmering tensions, heavily armed militants clashed with a National Guard unit Thursday in the town of Oleksandrivsk, in the Luhansk region, the National Guard said on its website. A grenade hit the unit's weapons depot, which exploded, destroying weapons and ammunition, the National Guard said. No casualties were reported in the incident. On Monday, a Ukrainian military operation against pro-Russia militants who had seized a part of Donetsk airport resulted in as many as 70 deaths, according to the separatists, although local officials' estimates were lower. At least 33 Russian citizens are among the militants killed during the violence, a spokesman for the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic told CNN. Their bodies are to be returned to Russia. Kiev and the West have accused Russia of coordinating and supplying the separatists, a claim Moscow has denied. Russian troops 'pulling back' On Thursday, a U.S. official with direct knowledge of the latest intelligence said 30,000 Russian troops that had been amassed along the Russia-Ukraine border have been moving back to their home bases over the past several days. About 10,000 troops -- mainly infantry -- remain along Russia's border with eastern Ukraine, the official said, and there are some signs those troops will be pulling back as well. NATO this week also reported signs that some Russian troops near Ukraine's eastern border may be preparing to pull back. The United States has been using satellites to track Russian troop movements for weeks, and both the United States and NATO have released imagery to bolster their case that Russia had amassed tens of thousands of troops along the border. Several U.S. officials have said it appears the Russians have decided to try to work with the new Ukrainian government, but officials also point out that it wouldn't take much to bring a large number of Russian forces back to the border via transport aircraft at any time. Governor in talks with separatists Serhiy Taruta, the billionaire governor of Donetsk, acknowledged Thursday in a CNN interview that a Ukrainian military operation was under way in the Donetsk region, but he was unable to comment further. Taruta, speaking in Kiev, said he was in talks with pro-Russia separatist leaders in the region to try to calm the situation, adding that the aim was to "reach real understanding," rather than just a deal. "We are having dialogue, which is dragging out because they seem to have a constant rotation of their leaders, but I hope that in the final analysis we will reach an agreement and reconciliation to work together," he said. Taruta has met with Poroshenko in Kiev, he said, adding that the President-elect will visit the Donetsk region "we hope in the first half of June." CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reported from Donetsk, and Laura Smith-Spark wrote and reported in London. CNN's Barbara Starr and Boriana Milanova contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/travel/wildlife-photography-irpt/index.html	travel	10 tips for capturing spectacular wildlife photos - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:07:09 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Camping in the freezing snow at an altitude of 6,000 feet. Trekking through the jungle with an armed guard. Sitting on a boat in crocodile-infested waters. Craig Smith sure has done a lot to take a good picture. The chief financial officer from Orange County, California, has a second life as a wildlife photographer. His passion started early, at age 8. His grandparents gave him a camera before a trip to Yellowstone National Park, thinking he might like to photograph the bears. "I struggled when I was young with focus, so they thought picture-taking would be a good hobby," he said. Since then, he's visited Africa 10 times, taken photos of animals on all seven continents, and been to both the North and South poles. He's photographed pandas in China, gorillas in Rwanda, lions in Namibia and polar bears in Norway. He'd ultimately like to take underwater photos of a Great White Shark. Experience the majesty of Smith's wildlife photography, and that of other CNN iReporters, in the gallery above. And if you'd like to shoot gorgeous animal photos of your own -- whether of the birds in your back yard or on a monthlong safari -- follow their tips below. 1. Get comfortable outside If you want to take pictures of animals, you'll be spending a lot of time outside. "Starting out, you need a passion for the outdoors," said Smith. "Shooting animals is all about having enough time to linger for an extended amount of time waiting for the right shot." 2. Start with a sure thing For those who aren't used to shooting wildlife, photographer and iReporter Robert Ondrovic recommends visiting your local zoo for some practice. "The variety of animals on display in a relatively confined area will give the beginner the opportunity to be up close to numerous species in a setting that makes them easy to capture," he said. Pets and backyard animals can also be good practice subjects. When you're ready to up the ante, head to a nearby state or national park to find and photograph animals in the wild. 3. Splurge on your lenses "Buy the absolute best lens you can -- glass makes all the difference in quality photographs -- and be less focused on the camera body," said Ondrovic. "The 'guts' of most DSLRs in any brand are similar across the various lines" (and prices). Although it's helpful to have a variety of lenses for capturing animals, if you're only going to buy one for your wildlife shots, make it a telephoto or super telephoto lens. "It is a basic lens of wildlife [photography]," said nature photographer Takayuki Maekawa, as it allows you to zoom in. "More often than not, the animals are a distance away from you, and that is probably good idea since it is always preferable not to place yourself in close proximity to certain animals," advised Ondrovic. Smith recommends going with a 400-millimeter for the strongest close-ups. But if you're not sure, CNN producer Jessica Ellis, who is also a wildlife photographer, advises renting before you buy. "Start at a local camera rental shop," she said. "Test out a few of their DSLR beginner recommendations" to find out what you like and are most comfortable with. Even if your budget limits you to a point-and-shoot camera rather than a higher-quality DSLR, make sure you get one with a good optical zoom. Digital zoom, which is achieved electronically rather than by adjustment of the camera's lens, reduces quality and can result in pixelation. This "may not give you the clarity that makes for a good image," said photographer and iReporter Doug Mackenzie. 4. Skip the tripod You might think a tripod is a good idea for capturing sharp photographs, but when it comes to animals, you'd be wrong, says Ondrovic. "You may set up a tripod looking forward and an animal may suddenly appear to your left, right, [or] behind and you will miss the opportunity trying to get the angle if mounted on a tripod," he explained. If you're looking for more stability, "a monopod would be a good thing to buy instead of a tripod," advised Smith. Its single leg will help steady the camera without limiting your range of motion like a tripod can. 5. Be patient "If you think things happen quickly like the Internet, social media or sports, you will be disappointed," warned Smith. He spent hours hiking through the "dense jungle" of Rwanda and Uganda over three different trips to capture a stunning close-up of a mountain gorilla. "If you want to photograph wildlife, you have to be quiet and when you see them, you have to move slowly and try not to scare them," added freelance photographer Billy Ocker. "I always look for their tracks on the ground." "Animals don't pose and seldom smile on queue," agreed Mackenzie. "You have to learn to be very, very patient. It could take hours, days or even years to get just the right shot." Maekawa will spend up to 10 hours a day waiting for a photo -- and has been shooting some species for more than 10 years. 6. Change your perspective As you're clicking away, think about the perspective and goal of your images. For Smith, that means creating "a special relationship between the animal being photographed and the person viewing the picture." As a result, he likes to shoot from the animal's perspective -- "get on your knees and shoot at their level." Maekawa tries to capture the human side of the animals he shoots, while Ondrovic focuses on their wildness. "My goal as a wildlife photographer these days is to photograph animals in their natural settings, unencumbered by artificial environments such as zoo captivity, and show their beauty as they were meant to be," he said. And Ellis hopes to pass along an environmental message with her pictures. "I hope to bring people closer to nature ... to pass on a message that we all must strive to minimize our impact on the earth," she said. 7. Capture the eyes They're the windows to the soul, you know, and Mackenzie says they're also the key to a stunning animal portrait. "They will help you tell the story and give the image that extra spark of life that will touch you and all those who eventually see the image," he said. "Get as close as possible." 8. Know your equipment Imagine how you'd feel if you dropped a wad of cash on a fancy new camera, went on your fabulous safari vacation, saw a majestic lion posing perfectly -- and couldn't figure out how to turn off your flash or adjust your aperture. Give yourself plenty of time and opportunities for practice before your holiday of a lifetime. "There is nothing worse than buying the latest hot camera and leaving the next day, hoping it was be the thing that gets you that award-winning photo," warned Mackenzie. 9. Anticipate "Animals are unpredictable," said Smith. They're not going to hold their pose for you, so try to anticipate and start snapping before they strike that perfect silhouette or move into just the right spot. "Look for the anticipative moment," advised Mackenzie. "One of the most common things for us all to do is to be watching the action in front of us and forget to push the little button." 10. Shoot, shoot, shoot All our experts agree that more is more when it comes to photographing wildlife. "Shoot and shoot. Experiment!" said Smith. Take photos at "different exposures, different shutter speeds, different apertures" to see what works best, advises Mackenzie. Shoot from a variety of angles and times to capture different light levels, said Maekawa, and be sure to capture the animal making a variety of expressions. Finally, whatever you do, bring lots and lots of digital storage and extra batteries so you can click away without worry. Have you shot stunning wildlife photos that you think belong in the gallery above? Submit your best at CNN iReport.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/us/clippers-who-is-steve-ballmer/index.html	us	Steve Ballmer: From screaming Microsoft exec to LA Clippers owner? - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 04:54:29 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- After weeks in limbo, the Los Angeles Clippers could shift hands from an embattled billionaire octogenarian to a former Microsoft CEO. But unlike owner Donald Sterling, whose racist remarks hurled him into a vortex of public criticism, Steve Ballmer flew under the radar in recent months before he laid down a record $2 billion offer for the team. Here are nine things to know about the man who could become the Clippers' next owner: He's wealthier than Sterling A lot wealthier. Ballmer is worth $20 billion, according to Forbes magazine. Forbes put Sterling's wealth at $2 billion. Ballmer succeeded his buddy Bill Gates as Microsoft CEO He took the reins in 2000 from Gates, whom he became friends with at Harvard University in the 1970s. Ballmer earned a degree in mathematics and economics. His years leading Microsoft were sometimes turbulent ... When Ballmer took over, Microsoft was the most valuable company in the world. But the company went on to lose more than half of its market value over the course of a decade. ... but there were also great times During Ballmer's tenure,Windows 7 was the fastest-selling operating system of all time, and Microsoft's cloud and enterprise businesses have stayed strong over the past decade. He retired from Microsoft in February and has been spotted at Clippers games since. He's really animated Just watch how he takes the stage for a corporate presentation. "Come on! Get up!" Ballmer screamed as he danced and leaped across the floor. "Whoooooo! Come on, give it up for me!" By the time he took the podium, he barely had enough breath to say, "I love this company!" He's ripped his vocal cords Perhaps it's not surprising, then, that Ballmer has damaged his voice during his public displays of affection (for Microsoft). According to The New York Times, Ballmer once shouted ''Windows! Windows!'' so furiously at a sales meeting in Japan that he ripped his vocal cords, requiring surgery. He's from Motown  Ballmer's dad, Fred Ballmer, was a manager at Ford Motor Co. in Detroit. The younger Ballmer was valedictorian of his high school class. Ballmer wasn't the only bigwig eyeing the Clippers A group that included media moguls David Geffen and Oprah Winfrey also made a bid of $1.6 billion for the Clippers, a source told CNN. This isn't his first time trying to buy an NBA team Ballmer's purchase of the Clippers would still have to be approved by 75% of the NBA's 30 owners. Last year, the owners denied a sale to a group that included Ballmer, which would have resulted in the Kings moving to Seattle, after the league's relocation committee recommended keeping the team in Sacramento. But with all the talk about changing ownership with the Clippers, Ballmer's fate this time may turn out differently. CNNMoney's David Goldman and contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/americas/cuba-us-delegation/index.html	world	Cuban President Raul hosts U.S. delegation - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:31:33 EDT 2014	Havana (CNN) -- Cuban President Raul Castro on Thursday hosted a delegation from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a powerful lobbying group championing capitalism and free markets. "We talked about steps forward that might be taken by both countries" to improve U.S.-Cuba relations, Thomas Donohue, the head of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said as the delegation prepared to board a private plane back to the U.S. at the end of its three-day visit. "It was positive and we expect to talk again," Donohue said on meeting Castro. The 12-person delegation included executives from Cargill, one of the world's largest suppliers of agricultural products and foods, and Amway, the direct-selling mega-corporation. Most trade between Cuba and the U.S. is outlawed by the latter's 52-year trade embargo on the island. The delegation met owners of small businesses in Cuba and toured a state auto repair shop that has been turned into a private cooperative. Donohue spoke to students and government officials Thursday about the power of free markets at the University of Havana, where Fidel Castro studied law before embarking on the path to revolution. "Those of us who oppose the embargo are often accused of excusing or ignoring the Cuban government's record on human rights and personal freedom," Donohue told the crowd. "In fact they need to be addressed by our governments in a constructive and ongoing dialogue." Donohue praised Cuban government efforts to attract more international investment and allow more of its citizens to work for themselves but said the island had to go further with its economic reforms. "We deeply believe that countries with strong private sectors, free of excessive government control and ownership, will have the most successful and productive economies." Under reforms initiated by Raul Castro, nearly 500,000 Cubans have started their own businesses, activity that was strictly forbidden for much of the Cuban revolution. In March, Cuba's National Assembly passed a new foreign investment law that aims to attract billions of dollars in international financing. Despite the changes slowly unfolding in the Cuban economy, it remains unclear if there will be any significant alteration to the current stalemate in Cuba-U.S. relations. Although President Barack Obama allowed Cuban-Americans to make unlimited visits to the island and lifted the cap on remittances they could send to relatives, the improving relationship between the two countries was overshadowed by the arrest of U.S. State Department contractor Alan Gross in 2009. Gross is serving a 15-year sentence in Cuba for importing illegal satellite communications equipment to the island as part of what Cuban officials have called a plot to foment dissent. Cuban officials have said they wish to discuss Gross' case along with those of three Cuban intelligence officers imprisoned in the U.S. But so far, U,S, officials have said relations will not improve between the two countries until Gross is released. Despite the challenges, Donohue said the President struck an optimistic note about the future of the two nations' relations. "I think he's a hopeful man," he said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/world/africa/egypt-violence/index.html	world	Egyptians vote in presidential election - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 12:24:45 EDT 2014	Editor's note: For full coverage of the Egyptian election in Arabic, visit CNN Arabic. (CNN) -- The first day of voting in Egypt's presidential election was relatively quiet, state media reported Monday, though one man connected to a campaign was shot to death. Polls will reopen at 9 a.m. Tuesday for the last day of voting. Egyptians are choosing between two candidates: Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and Hamdeen Sabahy. Egyptian Prime Minister Ibrahim Mehleb declared Tuesday a public holiday "in compliance to citizens' wishes," state TV reported. The decision is thought to be a move to increase turnout. Public service ads, media campaigns and the electoral ads of the el-Sisi campaign stressed that voting is a patriotic duty. The election was called because Mohamed Morsy, Egypt's first freely elected president, was removed from power in July in a popular military coup. A man working for el-Sisi's campaign was fatally shot near Cairo on Monday, Interior Ministry spokesman Alaa Mahmoud said. Mohamed Fathy, 35, was getting out of a taxi in the village of Kerdassa on the western edge of Cairo when he was shot in the head by unknown gunmen, Mahmoud said. Fathy was active in the el-Sisi presidential campaign and was a member of the Tamarod political movement, according to a statement from Tamarod. Police are investigating, but Assistant Interior Minister for Information Abdel-Fattah Othman has said the slaying has nothing to do with the election process. Tamarod has blamed the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood group, which had held a small protest in Kerdassa earlier in the day. Abdul Mawgoud Dardery, a spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood, criticized the election: "What you have in Egypt now is not democracy but a militacracy. ... What we have now is Mubarak coming back. Sisi is Mubarak version 2014, and that is the tragedy." Mahmoud also said a bomb was detected and defused at the Ahmed Sayed I school polling station in Giza. Egypt's state-run news agency MENA reported clashes in a polling station at Umraniya district but said they didn't disrupt the vote. Beni Suef Security Director Ibrahim Hadib said that seven members of the Muslim Brotherhood were arrested for trying to disrupt the electoral process in that town, MENA reported. A number of people hurled Molotov cocktails at the headquarters of el-Sisi's campaign in the town of Hosh Issa. No material damage or casualties were reported, MENA said. The Sabahy campaign similarly reported disruptions. "The day has sadly witnessed many violations observed, documented and announced by the campaign, led by banning Sabahy delegates from entering polling centers, collective voting, physical assaults against delegates and lawyers, let alone some cases of intervention by police and army forces," it said in a statement. "The campaign hopes that these violations would not repeat tomorrow." Opinion: Egypt's youth needs more than tinkering at the edges For full coverage of the Egyptian election in Arabic, visit CNN Arabic CNN's Salma Abdelaziz and journalists Dina Amer and Sarah Sirgany contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/africa/meet-armless-table-tennis-champion/index.html	world	Meet the armless table tennis player who proves 'nothing is impossible' - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 06:00:05 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's Ibrahim Hamadto's turn to serve. Holding the bat in his mouth, the Egyptian para-table tennis champion gets the rally going by flicking the ball up high with his right foot. Sinking through the air, the delicate white sphere meets his racket and comes out charging like a bullet with a powerful spin. Hamadto, 41, is armless. He lost both his upper limbs in a train accident when he was just 10 years old. But the terrible misfortune didn't stop him from pushing himself to follow his dreams. "In our village, we could only play, at that time, table tennis and soccer -- that's why I played both," Hamadto, who hails from Kafr Saad in northeastern Egypt, told CNN. "It was logic to play soccer first due to my case; then I played table tennis as a challenge." Starting at 13, Hamadto spent years working hard to perfect his game -- initially he tried different options at gripping the bat, including holding it under his armpit, before deciding to handle it with his mouth. "It was quite difficult playing table tennis after the accident," Hamadto recalled. "I had to practice hard for three consecutive years on a daily basis. At the beginning, people were amazed and surprised seeing me playing. They encouraged and supported me a lot and they were very proud of my willing, perseverance and determination." People were also very proud of his athletic achievements. Hamadto, who is married and a father of three, has won several honors over the years, including the silver medal in the African Para-Table Tennis Championships last year. Earlier this month, the Egyptian champion demonstrated his skills at the World Team Table Tennis Championships, held in Tokyo, Japan, where he was the guest of honor and played against some of the sport's biggest names. "Ibrahim is a very nice man with faith and perseverance," said Alaa Meshref, the president of Egyptian Table Tennis Federation. "He is very polite and modest. Although his circumstances, both financially and physically, are not that easy going, he never asked for anything," he added, going on to describe Hamadto as a role model for every young person. "People without disabilities should learn more from him, as they always find excuses for minimal nuisances. They need to understand how he was able to conquer his tragedy and prove that insisting on your goal is always achievable." Indeed, watching Hamadto playing, seeing the artistry in his game as he defends with panache and attacks with vigor, it's hard to disagree. "I believe that nothing is impossible, as long as you work hard," said Hamadto. "This is the message I would like to send to people." Read more: Kenya's cycling hero Read more: Tanzania's forgotten track star  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/africa/sudan-apostasy-husband/index.html	world	Sudanese woman undaunted by apostasy death sentence, husband says - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:48:06 EDT 2014	Khartoum, Sudan (CNN) -- Daniel Wani is thrilled about his daughter's birth -- but hoping it doesn't hasten his wife's death sentence. His pregnant wife, Meriam Yehya Ibrahim, was condemned to die by hanging after she refused to renounce her Christian faith and profess she was a Muslim. When Ibrahim was convicted of apostasy and adultery by a Sudanese court two weeks ago, she was eight months pregnant. She gave birth to the couple's baby girl this week at a Khartoum prison, where she's detained together with her 20-month-old son. In past cases involving pregnant or nursing women, Sudan waited until the mother had weaned her child before executing any sentence. Her baby's early birth makes her impending death sentence more daunting. But despite languishing in prison with two infants, she's holding firm to her beliefs. "There is pressure on her from Muslim religious leaders that she should return to the faith," Wani said. "She said, 'how can I return when I never was a Muslim? Yes my father was a Muslim, but I was brought up by my mother.' " Wani said his wife is a practicing Christian, more so than him, and even had their son, Martin, baptized. "I know my wife. She's committed," he said. "Even last week, they brought in Sheikhs and she told them, 'I'm pretty sure I'm not going to change my mind.' " The arrest Ibrahim was arrested after Muslim relatives accused her of renouncing her religion. Their complaint alleged that she went missing for years, and her family was shocked to find out she married Wani, a Christian, according to her lawyer. Wani said he'd never met the relatives who made the accusations. His wife, he said, was raised a Christian by her mother, who was Ethiopian Orthodox, after her Muslim father deserted the family when Ibrahim was age 6. "These people filed charges claiming that she was their sister and filed a police report saying that she had disappeared," he said. 'She's frustrated' At first, Ibrahim was charged with adultery for marrying a Christian. The apostasy accusation was added after she maintained she was a Christian, according to her husband. "The police originally called for the case to be dismissed, but these people went back and added another charge ... which is adultery, by saying she was their sister and a Muslim. It is illegal for a Muslim woman to marry a Christian man, therefore we were brought before the court." She's been detained since January 17, he said. In addition to the emotional turmoil resulting from her conviction, they have to worry about their children. "An illegitimate marriage does not result in legally recognized offspring, which means that my son and the new baby are no longer mine, he said. Wani's own physical condition makes the ordeal even harder. He uses a wheelchair and "totally depends" on Ibrahim, according to her lawyer, Mohamed Jar Elnabi. "He cannot live without her," he said. Wani said he's not been allowed to visit his detained family as much since the apostasy charge was added. "She's in a bad mood," he said of his wife. "She's frustrated." More punishment In addition to the death sentence, the court sentenced Ibrahim to 100 lashes for the adultery conviction. To avoid this fate, all she had to do was recant her Christian faith and profess she was Muslim, the religion of her father. The court had warned her to renounce her Christianity by May 15, but she has steadfastly maintained that she is a Christian, and will remain a Christian. Sudanese Parliament speaker Fatih Izz Al-Deen said claims that she was raised as a non-Muslim were untrue. She was raised in an Islamic environment, and her brother, a Muslim, filed the complaint against her, according to Al-Deen. Attempts to contact Sudan's justice minister and foreign affairs minister for comment have been unsuccessful. 'I'll stand by her' Wani, an American citizen, said he was optimistic the appeal their lawyers have filed would lead to the court's ruling being overturned. "I'm hoping that, given the way people have come together around the world -- which I want to thank them for," he said. "All the rights groups, all the broadcasters ... It's looking like it had an effect. Perhaps it will result in the judgment being overturned." But until it's done, the mother of his children has his support. "I'm standing by her to end. Whatever she wants, I'll stand by her," he said. Worldwide condemnation Rights groups and foreign embassies worldwide have condemned the verdict. "The fact that a woman could be sentenced to death for her religious choice, and to flogging for being married to a man of an allegedly different religion, is abhorrent and should never be even considered," said Manar Idriss, Amnesty International's Sudan researcher. Foreign embassies in Khartoum, including those of the United States, United Kingdom and Canada, urged the government to reverse course. Though there's no timetable on when the judicial process will finish, the couple isn't giving up. The appeals court's ruling could come within the next week, their lawyer says. Until then, they're grasping at small signs of hope. The last time Sudan executed someone for apostasy was in 1985, when a man criticized the implementation of Sharia law. READ: Sudanese woman sentenced to death for her Christianity gives birth in prison READ: Opinion: Why marrying for love should never mean death CNN's Nima Elbagir reported from Khartoum, and Faith Karimi reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/sport/horseball-equestrian-olympics/index.html	iSport	Horseball, dubbed 'quidditch on a horse', seeks Olympics place - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:53:52 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Out with seekers and brooms. In with stirrups and hooves. This is horseball, where rugby meets basketball on horseback -- but players have more fun comparing it to quidditch, the sport of Harry Potter's wizarding world. "I usually ask people if they've seen the Harry Potter movies," says British horseball player Jamie Gibson. "Quidditch is the nearest comparison I can think of. That usually gets people going." While Potter and teammates pick up gruesome injuries with disturbing ease playing quidditch, full-contact horseball does at least feature helmets. "It looks a little bit violent, but it isn't," says Frederico Cannas, the sport's president, who began playing as a teenager in his native Portugal. "The horses are very well-prepared and there are rules to protect both the horse and the rider. It's intensive, but it's safe." As UK horseball pioneer Jim Copeland puts it: "People have a go at you, that you 'shouldn't be doing that with an animal,' but we only have one horse -- so we want to end up with it at the end of the game, in the condition it started in." http://t.co/KMXMgLiN9M http://t.co/UVsxnkIFMd Horseball games last 20 minutes, in which teams of six -- four horses per side at any one time -- try to shoot a junior football with leather handles into an oversized basketball net. At the highest level, you can expect up to 20 goals per game. Players can tackle each other, so horses and riders do come into contact, and one of the game's signature moves involves riders swooping low to pluck the ball off the ground, without dismounting. That requires the game's only specialist riding equipment, a "pickup strap" which ties the stirrups together, allowing competitors to lean far below their horse, collecting the ball without falling off. "That's our little secret," laughs Cannas. "For spectators, it looks fantastic when players do that, but for people picking up the ball, it's not that difficult." The sport's passing, movement and some strategies share similarities with rugby and basketball, but horseball first appeared in 1970s France as a descendant of pato, Argentina's national game. Pato is centuries old and looks more like polo -- early players once used a duck in a basket as the "ball" -- whereas horseballers say their sport offers a more modern, spectator-friendly experience. Read: Guide to equestrian disciplines "I believe this is one of the most exciting equestrian sports," says Cannas. "It's a team sport, when equestrian sports tend to be individual sports, and the gear is not expensive. "To start horseball, you don't have to have a lot of riding skills. You just have to be comfortable on a horse." Copeland, who founded the North London club in the 1990s, adds: "It's the team aspect. In the other equestrian sports, like dressage and jumping, the team event just means you're relying on each other for points. "In horseball, you rely on each other the same way you would in a football match. "Horseball encourages men and boys to stay riding longer. The participation is about 50-50, men and women." Gibson, who works at a nuclear power station when not playing, is testament to that. He says horseball kept him riding as a teenager. "I was about 14, and I was leaning more towards football and rugby," he recalls. "But my uncle had a space on his horseball team and I didn't really look back. It kept me involved in horses. "On the team this year there's me, two of my sisters, another lad that's played for about 15 years, and two girls who used to play for Nottingham -- one is a doctor and the other is an accountant." The French, inventors of the game, still dominate the sport. Gibson believes France's senior men's team has never been beaten at international level. (He also complains that his British team, like England's footballers, are "not as good as we should be.") Read: Dentist by day, gymnast on horseback by night Cannas says more than 80% of the world's players hail from France, while Copeland was inspired to start horseball in the UK when he saw a French demonstration at the 1991 Horse of the Year Show. But Cannas believes his sport can expand quickly in years to come, beginning with a chance to showcase horseball as a demonstration sport at this August's World Equestrian Games in Normandy. "We now have 18 countries playing horseball," says Cannas. "We have already had two World Cups, there is a Champions League, and there are some national championships. "I believe, in five to 10 years, this will be one of the biggest equestrian sports. People love it. Last month I was at an equine fair in Ohio and they were crazy for horseball, it was basketball on horseback. "We even have horseball in Australia at the moment," he adds, "but they are on the other side of the world, and sometimes they try to do their own thing." That makes Copeland chuckle. "The Australians can be quite ... physical. When they go to international competitions, they find they haven't really read the rules properly." Horseball's next move is expansion into the United States. The players, however, have bigger dreams. "They say that if Paris had got the 2012 Olympics, instead of London, horseball would have been looked at as an Olympic event," says Gibson. "I was one of the few who was slightly disappointed when London got the Olympics." Copeland adds: "Personally, I think this would make an excellent Olympic sport. "Whereas the horse world is always very good at attracting its own, horseball attracts people who aren't even interested in horses." Read: 'Girl with the dancing horse' no longer fears last waltz  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/meast/iran-hacking-report/index.html	world	Report: Iran hackers use social media to target U.S., Israel officials - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:52:43 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Hackers based in Iran used social networks to spy on high-ranking U.S. and Israeli officials, a new report by a cybersecurity firm claims. Posing as journalists and government officials, the hackers have been working for about three years to get close to their targets, connecting with at least 2,000 people in the process, according to the report from iSight Partners. "While it's low sophistication technically, it's actually one of the most elaborate social media, or socially engineered, espionage campaigns we've ever seen," Tiffany Jones, a senior vice president at iSight, told CNN. The firm says that it doesn't have hard evidence tying Iran to the hacking but that "the targeting, operational schedule, and infrastructure used in this campaign is consistent with Iranian origins." Fake identities How does the scheme work? According to iSight, the hackers create fake accounts on social networks masquerading as journalists, government officials and defense contractor employees. They have even set up a bogus online news website, newsonair.org, to bolster their credentials, and have sometimes used real reporters' names, photographs and biographies. The hackers endeavor to build social network connections with friends, relatives and colleagues of their targets, who included senior American military and diplomatic officials, congressional staffers and defense contractors in the United States and Israel. Once they make contact with a target individual, the hackers try to establish their credibility, by initially sending messages with links to real news stories, for example. But over time, they lure the target to a fake website, where they steal their passwords and other credentials, or get them to download malicious software. U.S. admiral among connections The investigators at iSight said it isn't clear at the moment how many credentials the campaign has harvested so far. But among the more than 2,000 people with whom the hackers made connections are a four-star U.S. admiral, British and Saudi officials, journalists and lawmakers. None of the people were named. The hackers appeared to be after national security information, but what exactly they got their hands on remains unclear. "The actors have intimated their interest in specific defense technology as well as military and diplomatic information by their targeting," iSight said. "This type of targeting is inconsistent with cybercriminal behavior." There's no smoking gun pointing to official Iranian involvement in the scheme. The report cites circumstantial evidence that suggests the hackers operated from Iran. "What we can say is -- based on who was targeted, the types of information they were going after, the infrastructure that was used and where it's registered in Tehran and a number of other indicators -- that we believe there are links to Iranian actors here," Jones said. The hackers kept up a regular schedule that fits with working hours in Tehran, including the lunch break, according to iSight. Networks respond Facebook says it became aware of the scheme while investigating suspicious activity and has removed the fake profiles associated with the hackers. LinkedIn says it's looking into the claims. The FBI and State Department say they received copies of the report but aren't commenting on it directly. The State Department says it has been aware in the past of hackers from Iran using social media websites to investigate targets, including U.S. officials. As far as the general public is concerned, iSight advises vigilance when using social networks. "Do not create trusted connections with unknown organizations and/or individuals," it says. "Never provide login credentials with any site or person who contacts to you (rather than you contacting it)." CNN's Elise Labott reported from Washington, and Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/politics/white-house-my-brothers-keeper/index.html	politics	Obama urges national commitment to help boys of color - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:46:57 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- It is a stark and sobering fact of American life in the 21st century -- black, Hispanic and Native American boys and young men are less likely to graduate, stay out of jail and get a job than those who are white. Chances are greater they'll grow up with a single parent or none at all, won't read well, and will get suspended or expelled from school or just drop out. Saddest of all, such statistics aren't new or particularly shocking in a society that has come to expect such class, racial and ethnic disparities. President Barack Obama launched his "My Brother's Keeper" initiative three months ago to focus on solutions to such chronic and deep-rooted social ills. The initiative included a task force to examine the issue, and an invitation for businesses and foundations to help out. "No excuses. Government, and private sector, and philanthropy, and all the faith communities, we all have a responsibility to help provide you the tools you need," Obama told a group of African American students in February when he announced the initiative. "We've got to help you knock down some of the barriers that you experience." Transcript: Obama announces 'My Brother's Keeper' On Friday, the White House released the task force's first report -- a recitation of the challenges faced by young African American, Hispanic and Native American males struggling with a legacy of poverty and accompanying hardship, as well as ways to help them persevere and succeed. In a conference call with reporters, administration officials emphasized the initiative wasn't a new government program, but instead sought to assess existing public and private efforts to assess what worked and could be expanded. The goal is "sharpening what we do to make sure we are really maximizing the impact of the federal resources that we have," said Cecilia Munoz, the White House director of domestic policy. Also maximized would be the participation and contributions of a growing segment of the American population, noted White House senior adviser Valerie Jarrett, who said: "It's not only the right thing to do, it's vital to the long-term strength of our communities and the economy of the United States." She noted the Obama administration launched the White House Council on Women and Girls five years ago to focus on equal opportunity, and now the "My Brother's Keeper" initiative sought to do the same for other historically disadvantaged demographics. The 60-page task force report identifies key milestones for predicting later success for a non-white boy or young man, including:  Getting a healthy start in life and school  Reading well by third grade  Graduating from high school  Completing post-secondary education or training  Getting a job  Staying on track and getting a second chance "At each of these milestones, some individuals start to fall behind," the task force report says. "Once a young person falls behind, success becomes exponentially more difficult." It presents a litany of statistics that amplify the magnitude of the challenge. Black, Hispanic and Native American children are more than twice as likely to live in poverty as white children. About two in three black children and one in three Latino children live with one parent, and those raised by single mothers are way more likely to drop out of school. Among African American males 10 to 24, homicide is the leading cause of death. And in 2012, black males were six times more likely to be imprisoned than white males, while Hispanics were 2.5 times more likely. To respond to such disparities, Obama will call for Americans to commit themselves to long-term mentoring or tutoring programs to provide guidance and stability to children and young men of color, said Broderick Johnson, the White House Cabinet secretary who co-authored the task force report. Other focuses will be expanding access to quality pre-school and early education programs, eliminating expulsions and suspensions in early learning settings, and promoting literacy and reading programs, the task force report said. The initiative also includes investments expected to top $200 million from foundations and organizations involved in educational and social issues. Some of the wonky language of the report reflected the long-running programs, some public and some private, on which its recommendations and proposals are based. For reducing violence and providing boys and young men of color a second chance, its recommendation is to "institutionalize community oriented policing practices in the field and employ methods to address racial and ethnic bias within the juvenile and criminal justice systems." Translation: Improve coordination between federal, state, city and community leaders, as well as police and neighborhood groups, while reforming the juvenile justice system to keep kids and young men out of reform schools or jail cells and ensuring that those in prison have access to a quality education. Back in February, Obama spoke with rare candor about his own childhood in an effort to show that people from broken homes and other challenging backgrounds can succeed. "I didn't have a dad in the house and I was angry about it, even though I didn't necessarily realize it at the time," he said. "I made bad choices. I got high without always thinking about the harm that it could do. I didn't always take school as seriously as I should have. I made excuses. Sometimes I sold myself short." He compared himself to young men now who are growing up like he did. "The only difference is that I grew up in an environment that was a little bit more forgiving. So when I made a mistake, the consequences were not as severe," the President said. "I had people who encouraged me, not just my mom and grandparents, but wonderful teachers and community leaders. And they pushed me to work hard, and study hard, and make the most of myself. And if I didn't listen, they said it again. And if I didn't listen, they said it a third time - and they would give me second chances and third chances. "They never gave up on me, and so I didn't give up on myself." CNN's Dana Ford contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/sport/golf/rory-mcilroy-caroline-wozniacki-memorial-golf/index.html	iSport	Rory McIlroy continues hot streak in Ohio - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 06:04:32 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- There's nothing worse than seeing your ex on top of the world while you're down in the dumps. For two former halves of a sporting power couple, their fortunes could barely be more contrasting. While Danish tennis ace Caroline Wozniacki crashed out of the French Open in the first round, her former fiancee Rory McIlroy has been playing some of the finest golf of his career. The Northern Irishman broke off his engagement to Wozniacki on May 22 -- ending a three-year relationship -- before going on to win the European Tour's flagship event -- the BMW PGA Championship -- on Sunday thanks to an imperious final-round 66 at Wentworth. McIlroy upped his game further on Thursday, posting a nine-under par opening round 63 at the Memorial Tournament in Ohio. The world No. 6 leads the field by three strokes, having missed out on the course record by two, and his stranglehold on the Jack Nicklaus event could have been even tighter had he not tweaked his left knee on the seventh hole. "This has been coming," McIlroy, who will be attempting to win the U.S. Open for the second time in his career when it begins at Pinehurst on June 12, told the PGA Tour's official website. "My performances have been really good, been shooting really good scores. There's just been runs of holes in tournaments where I haven't played so well and I've shot it four or five over in the space of nine holes, and that's really just derailed my tournament. "Last week I just didn't do that and that's down to nothing more than hitting good golf shots and hitting good putts and limiting my mistakes whenever I get in trouble on the golf course." McIlroy showed little sign of being hampered by his knee injury, which was picked up during his second shot at the seventh."I wear spikes, so sometimes your foot can get stuck in the ground and you can torque your knee a little too much," explained the 25-year-old. "I think that's what I did, I tweaked it. The inside of it is sore, it's a little swollen. I'll go see the physio and get some treatment and get ice on it, and hopefully it will be OK for tomorrow." Double Masters champion Bubba Watson, his fellow American Chris Kirk and Englishman Paul Casey are in a three-way tie for second, one shot ahead of 2011 PGA Championship winner Keegan Bradley. Read: Tiger Woods out of U.S. Open Read: Girl, 11, makes U.S. Open history  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/us/mexico-us-marine-detained/index.html	us	U.S. Marine held in Mexico suffering 'inhumane' treatment, friend says - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 06:03:57 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Instead of getting treatment for his post-traumatic stress disorder, a U.S. Marine is now confined to a Mexican prison cell, his body sometimes tied to a bed by all four limbs, a close friend told CNN. Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi has been in prison for almost two months, accused of entering Mexico illegally with three weapons. His family insists he legally owned the firearms and crossed the border accidentally. It is illegal to bring guns into Mexico. While several U.S. lawmakers and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry have weighed in on the case, the fate of the Afghanistan war veteran remains in limbo. "His PTSD started from combat. Now he's got a whole other load of PTSD that he is going to get when he gets out of jail," said Sam Vranicar, a close friend who served with Tahmooressi in Afghanistan during a 2010 tour. Tahmooressi has been able to speak with his friend when he calls Vranicar's house collect from the Mexican jail. Vranicar said he's astonished that a Marine -- or anyone -- could be treated the way his friend describes. "Being tied to a bed in four-point restraints and joint manipulation restraints -- like ways that a POW would be treated ... it's just ridiculous," Vranicar said. "I don't think it's right for any American to be in a Mexican jail treated like that. They are our neighboring ally, and it's inhumane." Uncertain future It's unclear exactly when Tahmooressi will see a courtroom again. On Wednesday, a judge started and then quickly suspended a hearing after Tahmooressi fired his attorneys, a Mexican judicial source said. The source told CNN that Tahmooressi's next court hearing will be on June 4. But the Marine's mother, Jill Tahmooressi, said the next hearing is still weeks away, as it will take time for the new attorney to be briefed. The case has drawn attention from U.S. lawmakers and Kerry, who told CNN Wednesday that he spoke with Mexican authorities about it last week. "We are working on determining whether or not certain evidence that has been presented is meeting the standard that's necessary to be able to hold that young Marine, and we're trying to find out exactly what the fact pattern is, but we are working on that," he told CNN's "New Day." 911 call: 'I crossed the border by accident' "I'm at the border of Mexico right now. And my problem is, I, I crossed the border by accident and I have three guns in my truck and they're trying to take my guns from me," the Marine told a 911 dispatcher in March. In a recording of the call released by U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-California, the Marine appears unsure of whether he crossed the border and exasperated that Mexican authorities are trying to take his weapons. "There's nothing I can help you with then, sir," the 911 dispatcher says after learning he's in Mexico. "I do apologize. You're not on American soil anymore." Tahmooressi asks if authorities have a right to take his guns. The dispatcher tells him he should have seen large warning signs on the freeway saying it's illegal to enter Mexico with guns. "There are warning signs that do say that as you're driving down the freeway, before you enter Mexico," she says. "Yeah, I was hoping there would be a turnaround point," he says, "but there never was." Mom: Marine had been preparing to start fresh The Marine's mom said he accidentally crossed into Mexico with three personal firearms -- all bought legally in the United States. The 25-year-old had intended to drive to meet friends in San Ysidro, California, on March 31. He was moving from Florida to California in the hope of getting a job and continuing treatment he had just begun for post traumatic stress related to his two combat tours, she said. With all his possessions in his truck, Tahmooressi accidentally drove across the border, she said. Her son first encountered Mexican customs agents, she said, and he believed they understood that he'd made an innocent error. They seemed to be getting an escort car to help him, she said. But officers with the Mexican military interfered, she told "New Day," and her son was arrested. Letter to lawmakers The Marine has tried to appeal to U.S. lawmakers. "I accidentally drove into Mexico with 3 guns ... a rifle (AR-15), a .45 cal pistol and a 12 gauge pump shotgun with no intensions (sic) on being in Mexico or being involved in any criminal activities," Andrew Tahmooressi wrote in a statement of innocence to Hunter, who sits on the House Armed Services Committee. "I have rights to all 3 weapons," he wrote. "They are under my name. ... Please help me." Hunter is among several lawmakers who have petitioned for Tahmooressi's release. "Mexico's Attorney General is in a position to deal with Andrew's case and ensure its quick resolution," Hunter said in a statement this month. "It is necessary that the AG intervene and expedite proceedings at the very least. And so far there's been no validation from Mexico that Andrew didn't make a directional mistake at the border." 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/us/nba-clippers-sterling/index.html	us	$2 billion sale of Clippers confirmed - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 06:42:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The Clippers have been sold. Donald Sterling's estranged wife, Shelly Sterling, confirmed media reports that she has signed a binding contract to sell the basketball franchise to former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer for $2 billion. The sale will have to be approved at a NBA Board of Governors meeting. Shelly Sterling praised Ballmer's purchase. "We have worked for 33 years to build the Clippers into a premiere NBA franchise," she said in a news release. "I am confident that Steve will take the team to new levels of success." If the deal goes through, it would be the largest sum paid for an NBA franchise. Last month, the Milwaukee Bucks, a bad team in a small television market, sold for $550 million. Ballmer is worth $20 billion, according to Forbes magazine. " I love basketball. And I intend to do everything in my power to ensure that the Clippers continue to win -- and win big -- in Los Angeles," Balmer said in a news release. CNN's Brian Todd, Steve Almasy and Kevin Wang contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/borger-obama-defeated-by-bureaucracy/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Obama can't let himself be defeated by bureaucracy - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 07:03:47 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Barack Obama was a newbie president, there was no shortage of ambition or lack of confidence in the government he was about to lead. Government should be seen as a force for good, not evil. Sure, he told us, it needed to be "smarter and better," but that couldand wouldhappen under his watch. Never mind that Bill Clinton spent years "reinventing government" with mixed success. Or that only 2% of the American public believes that government can be trusted to do the right thing all the time. President Obama was convinced he could change all that with programs that would deliver for Americasuch as health care reformand the public would be grateful. Instead, the President is living his own version of "Alice Through the Looking Glass": staring down a rabbit hole of government bureaucracy and inefficiency. The government he has studiously tried to grow, manage and change has become his own personal nemesis. All of which makes you wonder: Does the President himself trust government anymore? The scandal at the Department of Veterans Affairs is just the latest in a slew of bureaucratic messes that strike at the core power point of the Obama presidency: Making government work. Consider the disastrous health care website rollout. The IRS controversy. Even the question of NSA surveillance raises questions about the role of government: Did the civil libertarian Obama allow spies to run amok? The President is clearly having a running debate with himself over all this. About a year ago, after the NSA program was revealed and Democrats and libertarians started squawking, Obama seemed more than a tad defensive on government spying. "If people can't trust not only the executive branch but also don't trust Congress ... to make sure that we're abiding by the Constitution ..." he said, "then we're going to have some problems here." Indeed. These are not trivial matters. Health care is the signature legislative achievement of the administration, and a botched rollout made it smell bad at the start. Fixing the VAand aiding veteransis a cornerstone of the Obama presidency. And yet, it all looks as if somehow the bureaucracy has beaten the boss. It's a management issue. So far as I can tell, the governing style of this administration has two extremes: issues singled out for micromanagement (as in, foreign policy, from the West Wing) and issues completely delegated (as in, VA management). What seems to be missing is the in-between: the continual monitoring and early warning system that avoids presidential blindsiding. That's the area in which most of the business of government actually gets done. And it can get done. The apparatus to do the nation's business in a competent way is there. Use it, and manage it. That's what chief executives are hired to do. Government is unwieldy and difficult and hard to tame, sure. But if your presidency is based, in large part, on telling Americans that government can work for them--which it can--you need to make it work. It's not that the President is a hopeless manager. He does very well when he leads a hierarchical organization with a single goal, like a presidential bid. He's top dog, he's not negotiating with anybody, and he's not trying to get people to do things they don't want to do. In a campaign, for instance, they all want to elect the same person: him. But when you have to negotiateor leadpeople not related to you, or not indebted to you or who don't agree with you, it's a different story. Managing or negotiating with people with mixed motives (Congress, anyone?) is not an Obama strong point. By nature, bureaucracies are hard to trust and even harder to tame. And if a chief executive isn't careful, it's an energy-sapping (and legacy endangering) vortex that sucks you right in. Just ask Obama, who was government's best friend. Does he still feel that way today? Hard to know. But my guess is he's a bit like Alice in Wonderland. "I can't go back to yesterday," she said, "because I was a different person then." Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/health/fit-nation-sia-scale/index.html	health	I'm no longer stressing about the scale - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 08:01:27 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Sia Figiel is one of six CNN viewers selected to be a part of the Fit Nation Triathlon Challenge program. Follow the "Sassy Six" on Twitter and Facebook as they train to race the Nautica Malibu Triathlon with Dr. Sanjay Gupta on September 14. (CNN) -- For years, I avoided scales. In fact, the only time I got on one was at a doctor's office or during a weight-loss challenge I had joined (yet again). In the past two decades, the numbers on the scale have climbed steadily -- from 225 to 275 to 300 to finally, my all-time high of 400 pounds. In fact, right before I left American Samoa, I went to the ER because I was feeling dizzy. The nurse checked my blood sugar and while I don't remember that number, I vividly remember the scale "incident." You see, the scale in the ER couldn't take my weight. The lovely nurse, who confided that she, too, was a diabetic, smiled at me and told me not to worry -- that I could use the scale in the Dialysis Unit to get weighed in. "That one goes up to 800 pounds," she said, "because they use it to weigh patients in wheelchairs." I knew all too well what the scale at the DU was capable of. My mother, who had been a dialysis patient, had used that scale for six years before she passed away. That a scale could not determine my weight was already embarrassing. But to be told that I needed to use a scale in the Dialysis Unit was wake-up call of where I was heading if I didn't do anything about my weight. A move to Utah in 2012 gave me the second chance I needed. I started almost immediately with a mostly vegetable and lean protein diet and added in walking and swimming. In nine months, I had dropped 100 pounds. This time, the scale became my friend. My best friend. So much so, that as soon as I woke up, I would weigh myself. An hour or two later, I would weigh myself again. In a 24-hour period, I must have weighed myself at least a dozen times. My self-esteem became wrapped up in the scale. I would be elated when I dropped a pound or two and depressed when the scale didn't move. Or even worse, when I gained. One day of not seeing the scale move made me anxious. A second and third and fourth day made me depressed, and I would end up eating foods I knew were not good for me. No matter how many compliments I received from people who hadn't seen me in a while, my weight loss meant nothing, because the scale didn't move. I wanted to find out if other people felt the same way and started Googling "massive weight loss." It was then that I came across Annette Miller's story. Reading about her struggles renewed my faith in my own struggle. In fact, I became so excited that I submitted an application to CNN Fit Nation with further weight loss as my main motivation. But I have been surprised, shocked even, at the twists and turns of this part of my journey. There are too many things happening to me right now that are far more exciting than losing or gaining weight. For instance, my insulin intake has dropped from 30 units to 20 units per day (it used to be 300 units a day at 400 pounds). After our initial meet up in Atlanta, I started walking with friends daily at the park in the mornings and executing the training plan Coach April posted at the gym in the evenings. Two weeks later, however, I had gained 10 pounds. I was perplexed. Wasn't I exercising daily? Wasn't I eating all the right foods? The good carbohydrates? The good oils? Nuts and lean meats? Weight loss, I have come to understand, is not a simple graph with a continuous straight line down. Weight loss looks more like a river with bends and currents and even waterfalls. Rivers, of course, ultimately find their way to the sea. And with that certainty in mind, I have decided to no longer stress about the scale. In fact, I threw out my bathroom scale two months ago and am no longer weighing myself. There are too many things happening to me right now that are more exciting than losing (or gaining) weight. For instance, I can run not only a mile but four! Nonstop. In under an hour! I can swim 1,500 yards in 45 minutes! I can perform three sets of 12 squats while holding a 6-pound medicine ball. OK, I still can't do lunges in proper form, but hey, I'm trying. What I'm discovering is that my new lifestyle means my self-esteem is no longer dependent on a scale, but on the thrills of how far I can push myself daily. From a minute to a mile: Learning to run Diabetes took my teeth but not my life  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/spain-terrorist-arrests/index.html	world	Spain arrests 6 suspected of recruiting for terror groups - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 08:17:22 EDT 2014	Madrid (CNN) -- Swooping in at 4 o'clock in the morning, Spanish police arrested six Spanish men on suspicion of recruiting and sending 26 radical Islamic fighters for terrorist groups in Syria, Mali and Libya, the Interior Ministry said Friday. The arrests came in the Spanish enclave of Melilla, on Morocco's north coast, where a Spaniard and two Frenchmen were arrested just last March on similar charges. The suspected leader in the cell disrupted on Friday had returned to Spain after fighting in Syria and training in a terrorist camp in northern Mali, the Interior Ministry said. The movement of Islamic militants from Europe and North Africa to conflict zones such as Syria, Mali or Libya -- and their eventual return to Spain to potentially carry out terrorist attacks -- has been a prime concern for authorities battling terrorism. The cell disrupted on Friday had recruited and sent at least 24 Moroccans and two Spaniards to conflict zones, according to authorities. But it was planning to expand its activities, to acquire weapons and manuals for preparing explosives, the Interior Ministry said, "which would have increased their level of danger, turning them into a serious threat to national security." The latest arrests coincide with the final day of an Interpol conference, held in Granada, Spain, this week, on the problem of terrorist fighters who cross international borders. More than 130 security experts from 33 nations are attending, a separate Interior Ministry statement said. The suspected leader of the cell disrupted on Friday is Benaissa Laghmouchi Baghdadi, 42, who spent about eight months in Syria and recently returned to Spain, via Mali, said an Interior Ministry spokesman, who by custom is not identified. He was among the first Spaniards to be detected as working with terrorist groups in the broad Sahel region in northern Africa. The other five suspects arrested were identified as Mustafa Al Lal Mohamed, 42; Kamal Mohamed Dris, 32; Rachid Abdel Nahet Hamed, 37; Mohamed Mohamed Benali, 26; and Mustafa Zizaoui Mohand, 26. All of the suspects were being flown to Madrid, to be taken to National Police headquarters. Arraignments are expected on Monday. Last January, a suspected Islamist militant returning to Europe from the war in Syria was arrested at the Malaga airport in southern Spain as a potential "threat to national security," the Interior Ministry said in a statement at the time. March 11 marked the 10th anniversary of the Madrid train bombings that killed 191 people and wounded more than 1,800. The Spanish courts convicted 14 Islamic militants for their roles in the bombings on morning commuter trains, along with four Spaniards who trafficked in explosives used in the attacks. A further seven key Islamist suspects blew themselves up three weeks after the train attacks as police closed in on their hideout in a Madrid suburb. Spain has arrested more than 472 suspected Islamic militants since the train bombings. There are now more than 1,800 police and security officials dedicated to fighting terrorism, far more than at the time of the attacks, Interior Minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz said last March. On Thursday, Spain's National Court sentenced Mudhar Hussein Almalki, 53, a Saudi national, to eight years in prison for of membership in a terrorist organization, according to a copy of the sentence viewed by CNN. He was convicted of using the Internet, from his home in Valencia, Spain, to spread terrorist ideology with the aim of training militants, for at least six years until his arrest in 2012, the sentence said. He was legally residing in Spain at the time and had no prior criminal record, the sentence said. Spain is on a Level 2 anti-terrorist alert, unchanged since 2009, on a scale of four terrorist prevention levels. Level 2 signifies a "probable risk" of another attack, the Interior Ministry said. Melilla is a Spanish city with about 85,000 residents. It was in the news earlier this week when about 1,000 sub-Saharan migrants rushed the fence from the Moroccan side, and some 500 made it over and into Spain, with the aim of finding work in Spain or in the European Union, authorities said. As police escorted the suspects from the homes where they were detained, crowds formed and some people heckled the police for making the arrests, an Interior Ministry spokesman said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/living/authors-favorite-beach-reads-books/index.html	living	5 best-selling author's favorite beach reads - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 08:18:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- They're books you've likely seen in the hands of readers at the pool or under the shade of a beach umbrella, often a dog-eared paperback folded in two and smeared with sunscreen. While there are no hard and fast rules about what constitutes a "beach read," the idea is that they can be read quickly, or that they're light in tone. Always, they're captivating and preferably escapist. Now that beach season has arrived, we quizzed five best-selling authors about their favorite summer reads. Of course, they're each having busy seasons, working on new novels or showing off those that debuted recently. But they all plan to have some quality time with books. Click through the gallery above to see what makes each author's reading list for the coming months, and read on to learn about their all-time favorite beach reads. Emma Donoghue, author of "Frog Music" For summer, Emma Donoghue, of "Frog Music" and "Room" fame, wants "a meaty plot; brilliant language; extra points for hilarity." She wants something she can read for hours on end, "anything too delicious to spoil by only reading it in 10-minute snippets when you're tired." Books from two Pulitzer Prize winners -- Jhumpa Lahiri and Michael Cunningham -- are on her to-read list this summer. But a beach read doesn't even need to be a book, Donoghue said. "When I'm on beaches I read magazines, because then it doesn't matter so much if my kids spatter them with sunblock, mud or juice." Joshua Ferris, author of "To Rise Again at a Decent Hour" Joshua Ferris, who wrote the National Book Award finalist "Then We Came to the End," said he doesn't vary his reading choices, regardless of the time of year. Classics like "Desert Solitaire" make his summer reading list this year. "What I bring to the beach is whatever I'm reading at the moment, and what I'm reading at any given moment usually concerns death, misery and marital discord, which don't seem too beachy," Ferris said. "I find it impossible to alter my reading for the sake of a season, and I never want to take a vacation from being honestly and firmly in the world." His favorite vacation read of all? "The back of a beer bottle." Michael Koryta, author of "The Prophet" A good story is important to Michael Koryta, whose new novel, "Those Who Wish Me Dead," debuts in June, but a vivid setting is key. "It would need to be a very atmospheric book, one that transports you to another place. The setting need not be tropical but I feel it should be remote or at least romantic," he said. This summer, Stephen King's "Mr. Mercedes" and Jo Nesbo's "The Son" make his list. But Koryta called Stephen King's "Bag of Bones" hard to beat and said "Jaws" by Peter Benchley "redefined the way people looked at the ocean from the beach." Sarah Lotz, author of "The Three" Sarah Lotz, whose novel "The Three," was released in May, prefers a beach read "that can be put down and picked up without straining my brain (it's quite easily strained)." She said crime and fantasy are among her favorites, "something I can lose myself in." This summer, books by Stephen King and Lauren Beukes make her reading list. But Lotz said she'll never forget reading V.C. Andrews' "Flowers in the Attic" as a preteen. "I think the whole of my generation was glued to it in the '80s," she said. "It's a truly horrible novel in a lot of ways, but I was absolutely sucked in by the melodrama of it, and whenever I think of it, I smell coconut suntan oil." Jojo Moyes, author of "The Girl You Left Behind"  Jojo Moyes, whose romance "The Girl You Left Behind" will be available in paperback in June, said vacation is the perfect opportunity for something more challenging. This year, it will be "The Vacationers," by Emma Straub. "The ability to sit and read for long stretches means that I read books that might be a little more challenging than in my everyday life, when I tend to fall asleep after two pages," Moyes said. "A couple of years ago, I read Hilary Mantel's 'Bring Up The Bodies,' which I'm pretty sure I wouldn't have managed at the end of a working day." Last summer, Moyes started reading George R.R. Martin's "Game of Thrones" series and said it was "slightly odd to be reading about medieval blood and gore and walls of ice while lying in the idyllic warm French countryside. But it worked." What are your favorite beach reads? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page!  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/justice/boston-marathon-bombings-charges/index.html	crime	Massachusetts man charged with obstructing Boston bombings probe - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 08:23:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A Massachusetts man was arrested Friday on suspicion of obstructing the investigation of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings, authorities said. Khairullozhon Matanov, 23, of Quincy, is charged with "one count of destroying, altering, and falsifying records, documents, and tangible objects in a federal investigation, specifically information on his computer, and three counts of making materially false, fictitious, and fraudulent statements in a federal terrorism investigation," the U.S. attorney's office for Massachusetts said Friday. An indictment against Matanov was unsealed Friday. Authorities say brothers Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and Tamerlan Tsarnaev planted bombs at the finish line of the 2013 race. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed during a subsequent manhunt that paralyzed Boston. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has pleaded not guilty to killing four people -- including three killed by the bombings -- and wounding more than 200.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/sport/motorsport/valentino-rossi-motogp/index.html	iSport	Valentino Rossi: 'The Doctor' who keeps giving his rivals the treatment - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 08:45:19 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Spain may be motorcycling's beating heart, but the sport's soul probably lies a little further east, in Italy. On Sunday one of Italy's greatest sons Valentino Rossi celebrates a special anniversary as the man known to all on two wheels as "The Doctor" lines up for his 300th MotoGP race. And what a special stage for such a special day. MotoGP 2014: The Doctor's Prescription -- Analyzing #Rossi 's Future (Pt 5) http://t.co/6WRn8CJkZx by @AngeloAnolin pic.twitter.com/YsrYwxvrV2 Coiled like a basking viper in the Tuscan hills lays Mugello, the Ferrari-owned circuit that may be both MotoGP's most evocative and beautiful. "Mugello is incredibly special," British TV commentator Julian Ryder told CNN. "It is frighteningly fast, with a long straight and lots of very high speed 'S' bends." Bedded into an undulating valley, its topography gives the thousands of spectators that will throng here this weekend a near perfect view of the track. "It's one of the longest races on the calendar, and it's got everything," added former MotoGP rider and double World Superbike champion James Toseland. "You hit 215mph at the end of the Mugello Straight, and carving through the valley at that speed is pretty incredible. "Phillip Island (in Australia) maybe shades it for the view you get of the ocean, but it's a beautiful place." "All the riders really enjoy the event. The support, the camping, the scenery, it's like a mini-festival." On Sunday you can expect the grandstands to be a sea of fluorescent yellow, the color worn by Rossi's army of fans. The 35-year-old, with nine world titles to his name, has a formidable record here, winning an astonishing seven consecutive premier-class wins at the track between 2002 and 2008. His powers may be waning, but there is a palpable sense that the man from Urbino can add another victory this weekend despite the dominance at Mugello in recent years by his Yamaha teammate Jorge Lorenzo. "There are always 25 points as the other races, but Mugello is a matter of honor," said Rossi in his pre-race statement, clearly enjoying his return to the Japanese manufacturer after two seasons in the wilderness with his home team Ducati. "Jorge has won the last three years on the Yamaha, doing fantastic races, and this means that the M1 is very competitive on this track. "It will be my 300th GP this weekend and for that I am not very happy because it means that I'm old, but I'm happy because I am in good shape and I can still be very fast!" Standing in Rossi's way is, of course, world champion Marc Marquez, who has enjoyed a spotless start to the year. Five wins, all from pole position, have led many to wonder if the young Honda rider can be beaten at all this season. Even a mistake at the Le Mans circuit in France, which saw him fall back to 11th place, couldn't prevent him winning comfortably. "I was pleased to see him slip up," says Toseland. "I thought, this will make a race of it; but after half a dozen laps he'd carved his way through, as if he was in a different class." The 21-year-old's peerless riding has left more experienced teammate Dani Pedrosa, who is second in the standings, already 42 points adrift. "You look at Dani Pedrosa: he's a fantastic rider, and he's not even in a close second, so it's clearly not the bike," Toseland says. "He's just so much better than everyone else." Last year Mugello marked a major stumble on Marquez's path to the title. He crashed four times, including a terrifying high-speed spill in practice and another in the race itself, when he was apparently cruising in second place. "Mugello is a hard track -- perhaps one of the most difficult on the calendar -- and last year wasn't easy for us," Marquez told CNN. "I had many crashes, but in the race I was able to run up front with Jorge and Dani, which is important." MotoGP's youngest champion also acknowledges the strength of his rivals on the troublesome track. "This year will be interesting," he says. "Jorge has won there the past few years and it's Valentino's home race -- and his 300th -- so I'm sure he'll be pushing hard. Also, Dani is so strong there so we'll have to wait and see." Mugello entrance. Welcome home. pic.twitter.com/9arNWyRSyr Marquez says he is relaxed, and maintains that his focus will be on points if a win looks out of reach. "We know it's been a dream start and it can't go on forever, but when that race comes -- that we can't win -- I'll have to be sure to take important points for the championship." Before the start of this season, most predicted that Lorenzo would be the man leading the charge to take Marquez's crown. Instead the two-time world champion has endured a series of disastrous showings, and looks a shadow of his former self. The veteran commentator Ryder wonders if Lorenzo's resurgent teammate is partly to blame: "I'm not sure it's Marquez, I think it's Rossi. "The first rule is always to beat your teammate, and this is the first time Rossi has been beating him every time on a level playing field." Lorenzo is hoping that a return to Mugello -- previously a happy hunting ground for him -- will mark a change in fortunes. "Now we are going to visit some special tracks for me and I think we can change some things to stay in front," the Spaniard said ahead of the race weekend. "We need to try to fight for our first victory of the season." This year, MotoGP's supplier Bridgestone has developed a new tire with a special rim, designed to retain heat on its edges, which could be the root of Lorenzo's problem. "If you have, say, a series of right-handers, followed by a left, that side of the tire can lose its heat, which can be dangerous and cause the bike to high side," said Toseland. "The idea of these tires is that they lose the heat generated on the sides more slowly, but it also seems the compound is slightly harder, so some of that grip at full lean -- which is part of Lorenzo's style -- has gone." Toseland believes Lorenzo, who has just one podium finish in 2014 and is 80 points behind Marquez, has let frustration overcome him. "He's become master of that Yamaha for so many seasons, and he's had to unlearn everything. The tires are so fundamental to the setup of the bike, the suspension and so on, and all the things he's been trying just haven't worked. "It's clearly got to him because he's making so many mistakes, which is so unlike him. He just needs to accept the situation and move on." With Lorenzo bereft of form and Pedrosa struggling to match Marquez's pace, Rossi has been the champion's only real threat. "If somebody can beat Marquez it is Valentino, says Herv Poncharal, the Yamaha Tech3 team principal. "We know there is extra motivation in Mugello; Valentino is very strong here in Mugello, but it will be hard." Toseland too, has faith in Rossi's ability. "I can see him winning it, definitely. The only question mark is whether Marquez has had to push himself so far this season, and maybe he hasn't needed to. "But in an out and out race, on the last lap, in Mugello, if Rossi is there fighting for the win at that point I'd put my house on him." Marquez's meteoric rise has so many echoes of Rossi's own sparkling early years. "I think the only person right now that can beat Marquez is Marquez himself, so we might have to rewrite some things, but I think Rossi's record stands for itself, and that has to be beaten first, " said Colin Edwards, now with the NGM-Forward Mobile Racing team -- and in his final season in MotoGP. The Texan memorably dubbed Rossi "The GOAT" -- the Greatest of all Time. "You could just see the fight and the determination, and he really didn't like losing at all, so I think everyone knew pretty early that he was really talented," added Edwards, who laughs when he recalls life as Rossi's teammate. "Everybody wanted Valentino. I had already won a couple of world championships in World Superbikes, I was doing my job, and I knew what my job was, my job was harmony in the team, and if Valentino had a problem then I had to give everything I could to try and win a race. "But it was just a pleasure. I mean the whole thing was just a pleasure to work with him. " I'd walk out of the truck or the garage to go wherever to change, you'd open the door and everyone would be, 'Yeah!' thinking it was Valentino, and then they'd see it was me and be like, 'Oh.' " Toseland, who was also part of the Yamaha family with Rossi for two years, is full of admiration. "He's so down to earth, and he has a steely determination about him. He'd achieved so much that he wasn't afraid of anyone or anything, and it was great to be around that -- it taught me so much about having the right attitude to racing. "He's a showman -- I loved all those antics after the race, the outfits and stunts. He turned MotoGP into a show; but it wasn't put on for the camera, it was genuine. He's the real deal." Marquez, who grew up watching Rossi on television, is another fan. "I love his overtaking, when he fought face to face with his main competitors, but overall, the show he always puts on." "It's incredible for him to reach this milestone whilst still being competitive. I hope he enjoys the weekend and gets a good result." Whatever happens on Sunday, Rossi's contribution to the sport is unmatched and indelible. As Ryder says, "Motorcycle racing would still be here without him, but MotoGP wouldn't be the same."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/louis-new-york-ferret-ban/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Freedom at last for New York ferrets? - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 08:43:55 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Errol Louis is the host of "Inside City Hall," a nightly political show on NY1, a New York all-news channel. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- New York Mayor Bill de Blasio has opened the door to Noah's ark by considering an end to the ban on owning ferrets, which dates to 1959. New York City's ferret owners -- a shadowy underground that smuggles and coddles the beasts in defiance of the law -- say that their pets, which are legal to own everywhere in America except Hawaii and California, should not be banned from the city. If only things were that simple. Having voluntarily chosen to live locked up in brick and steel towers, the 8 million homo sapiens who dwell in New York tend to get antsy about the idea of sharing our fancy concrete cage with other animals. Our wariness is codified in law, leaving no room for confusion: Section 161.01 of the New York City Health Code describes and classifies the species that cannot be kept as pets, with mind-numbing taxonomic precision. Barring professional exceptions like running a licensed zoo, circus or laboratory, says the code, it is illegal to own a polar, grizzly, or brown bear. New Yorkers cannot own bats, beavers, wolves, lemurs, hedgehogs, porcupines, elephants or dolphins. You might consider these prohibitions to be common sense. Who needs a law? You'd be wrong. In 2003, a New Yorker named Antoine Yates was discovered to be living in a Harlem public housing project with an alligator and a 400-pound Bengal tiger. The situation came to light after Yates showed up at the emergency room with a suspiciously large bite wound. So the code is a guide to help people avoid getting hurt. It prohibits hooved animals, "including, but not limited to, deer, antelope, sheep, giraffe and hippopotamus." Sounds good to me. It's hard enough to find parking on my block. Who needs to worry about hippopotamuses taking up spaces? New Yorkers cannot legally own members of the Procyonidae family, including "kinkajou, cacomistle, cat-bear, panda and coatimundi." Again, no problem. To tell the truth, I never heard of any of those creatures except the panda -- although a cat-bear reminds me of a popular science fiction series I read as a kid, featuring 500-pound feline aliens that nearly wipe out the human race. Marsupials are prohibited in New York: No Tasmanian devils, no kangaroos, and none of those other odd-sounding Down Under critters like dasyure, bandicoot, cuscus and numbat. You also cannot own any "nonhuman" primate. And no ferrets. But unlike most of the beasts on the forbidden list, the wily ferrets have developed a political constituency. "They have an odd half-monkey, half-dog kind of intelligence that bonds them to their people and makes them always very interesting and often very funny" is how one owner described her pet to the City Council at a hearing in 1999. When pressed on the subject of ferret attacks on humans, one council member noted that New York probably has more spouse bites than ferret bites. Rudy Giuliani, the mayor at the time, was having none of it. He famously berated a ferret advocate on a radio program, telling him, "There is something really, really, very sad about you," and "This excessive concern with little weasels is a sickness." Giuliani's rant remains posted online to this day, as does an official statement denouncing the creatures. Fast-forward to 2014, and a new mayor already embroiled in a high-profile battle over whether to ban horse-drawn carriages from the city. The Department of Health announced it has received a petition from the pro-ferret forces, and will duly consider lifting the ban. A word of advice to de Blasio: Tread carefully. If the ferrets get traction, it's hard to say where the revolution will end. People may want to have zorilles, wolverines or stoats. Advocates for binturongs, fossa, linsangs and suricates -- whatever those are -- may follow the ferret freedom fighters. And the scene down at City Hall, where one protest or another already takes place on any given day, could start to get truly wild. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/doherty-save-birds/index.html	opinion	Opinion: We need the birds, and the birds need us - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 08:40:45 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Peter Doherty, a Nobel Prize-winning immunologist, is the author of "Their Fate is Our Fate: How birds foretell threats to our health and the world." The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- Birds are a critical part of our ecological system. But more than ever, birds are threatened by human pollution and climate change. We need the birds to eat insects, move seeds and pollen around, transfer nutrients from sea to land, clean up after the mass death of the annual Pacific salmon runs, or when a wild animal falls anywhere in a field or forest. How could we enjoy spring without the birds flitting busily in our garden or dropping by to check out the flowers in our urban window box? Can you contemplate America without the soaring bald eagle, or even those scavengers like the pigeons and gulls that clean up discarded food scraps on our city streets and waterfronts? How diminished our lives would be without them. Scavenging eagles and condors need hunters to behave responsibly and bury, or remove, the remains of any shot deer peppered with fragments of lead bullets. Loons, ducks and other water birds will be poisoned by lead bullets and lead fishing sinkers if we allow such objects to drop in their feeding space. All sea and shore birds, even the puffins and guillemots of the otherwise pristine Aleutians, need us to make sure that no other heavy metals, like mercury and cadmium, are dumped in rivers and make their way across the oceans. Birds like the terns, knots and shearwaters that migrate between the far north and deep, deep, south of our planet need people everywhere to cease and desist from filling in their wetland fuel stops and rest stations, and from constructing golfing resorts and factories in their feeding and breeding grounds. Seabirds are among the most endangered vertebrate species on the planet, with the International Union for Conservation of Nature classifying 97 species as globally threatened, and 17 in the highest category of critically threatened. Of greatest concern are the pelicans of the southern oceans and the spectacular, but slow-breeding albatross. Plastic bags must be eliminated from natural environments so sea and shore birds don't mistakenly carry such debris back to feed their chicks, with invariably lethal consequences. The albatross, cormorants and herons need us to stop over-fishing and compromising their normal food supply. The pelicans, penguins and all the birds that inhabit, or visit, our coastlines need us to ensure that we do not dump oil into gulfs and bays, or release so much carbon dioxide into the atmosphere that the oceans turn acidic and we lose the mussels and oysters, the mass of calcareous plankton that feeds so many creatures, and the coral reefs that nurture enormous numbers of edible species. We must act now to stop the process of global warming so that non-migratory bird species do not die from heat exhaustion on what were safe mountaintop habitats. Any pregnant mammal can look for a cooler spot, but birds can't easily move their already laid eggs when air temperatures suddenly rise to the point where embryonic death is inevitable. Hotter environments also lead to mosquito-borne pathogens, such as the West Nile virus that kills corvids (like the yellow-billed magpies), horses and people. The birds need us to measure, observe and count them so we know what is happening and have data to use against the deliberately ignorant, the infinitely greedy, corrupt and stupid who are poisoning our planet and robbing us of our future. There are never enough dollars to pay for monitoring the environment so that we can know what's happening with wildlife. If you care about our future, then become a citizen scientist. You don't need any training, and if you love being in the natural world, you will enjoy the experience even if you hated high school physics and chemistry. Help the ornithologists and other researchers by joining the National Audubon Society and participating in its backyard bird count or, if you are still mobile and vigorous, the Christmas bird count. Check out where, for example, you might spend some vacation time participating in catch and release surveys to measure the nutritional status of those magnificent, feathered, long-distance migrants. All such data is fed back into the e-bird TeraGrid database operated by Cornell University for analysis by trained professionals and, for that matter, by anyone, anywhere in the world who wants to access it. Use social media and any means at your disposal to raise awareness about what's happening with the birds. You might even try to persuade politicians to engage with verifiable reality. Think about it: We share this small green planet. As they fly, feed and nest, the birds monitor the health of the natural world for us, provided that we, in turn, make the effort to access that key information. The birds and humans are both large, complex and ultimately vulnerable organisms that inhabit the top of the food chain. At the end of the day, their fate will be our fate. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/lemmon-farzana-stoning/index.html	opinion	Opinion: How stoning of a Pakistani woman riled the world - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 08:34:14 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Gayle Tzemach Lemmon is a fellow and deputy director of the Women and Foreign Policy Program at the Council on Foreign Relations. She wrote "The Dressmaker of Khair Khana," a book that tells the story of an Afghan girl whose business created jobs and hope during the Taliban years. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- "We were shouting for help, but nobody listened," said Muhammad Iqbal about the slaying of his pregnant 25-year-old wife, Farzana Parveen, at the hands of her relatives, who gathered to kill her in front of a courthouse in Lahore, Pakistan. More than 20 members of the woman's family stoned her to death for the "crime" of "dishonoring" her family by choosing to marry someone she loved rather than a husband her family had chosen. A police officer said "one family member made a noose of rough cloth around her neck while her brothers smashed bricks into her skull." Social media immediately picked up on the horrific and very public killing. #Farzana became a hashtag that provoked a conversation about the crime of so-called "honor killings" and society's tolerance and the police's alleged indifference to it. Suddenly a crime that not long ago would barely have elicited a headline was now a source of conversation and consternation among those on social media both within and outside Pakistan. And discussion about the slaying turned up another grim fact: Iqbal told CNN he killed his first wife so he could be free to propose to Farzana. The #Farzana hashtag comes on the public heels of another long-known and rarely noted issue that caught fire in the public's imagination and provoked a storm of well-deserved outrage: the kidnapping of schoolgirls in northern Nigeria by the militant group Boko Haram. A Nigerian lawyer created the #bringbackourgirls hashtag to call attention to the mass abduction of young women who gathered at school to take their exams. Once the word got out, people around the world began talking about the issue over social media. Reporters and politicians rushed to follow their lead, and discussions about girls' education and the crimes of Boko Haram at last punctured public indifference. In America, another horrific crime unleashed a gush of online discourse. This time it was a 22-year-old man on a quest for what he called his "day of retribution," when he would torture and kill "good-looking people" before launching a "war on women" to punish girls and women who he said had "starved (him) of sex." The misogyny in the killer's more than 100-page diatribe led women to begin using the #Yesallwomen hashtag to push forward a conversation on Twitter and Facebook and Tumbler about the rarely discussed though frequently experienced issues of violence against women, from sexual assault to harassment to domestic brutality. The #Yesallwomen hashtag went global and began trending on Twitter. Once again the mainstream media picked it up from there and followed the lead of women who had had enough of crimes and abuses perpetrated against them to speak publicly on the toll they have taken on their lives. Yet, for all the hashtag consciousness-raising and social media meet-ups of the like-minded the question remains: Will what happens in cyberspace stay there? Or will online outrage lead to real world change? Will crimes committed against women and girls across the globe finally come to be seen as harming and hampering not just women, but the communities in which they live? Much could be done if online activism led to real-life campaigning for concrete progress, such as: -- Enacting and enforcing laws to protect girls as young as 8 and 9 from being married against their will -- Providing aid and incentives to keep girls in schools -- built near their homes -- and to combat traditions that keep them out of the classroom -- Pushing for more stringent laws in the United States and abroad to punish traffickers rather than children -- Highlighting as role models the many fathers and brothers who value their daughters and allow them to pursue their futures unfettered, sometimes at the risk of their own safety and standing in society And these are only the start. The hashtag activism and social media outrage is an important start to addressing issues to which the world for so long had remained indifferent. But it is just one step. It falls to each of us to see whether all the talk about the power of women and girls and the shame of harming them translates into on-the-ground change. The stakes are high -- for all of us.  Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/showbiz/tv/bryan-cranston-breaking-bad/index.html	entertainment	Bryan Cranston hints 'Breaking Bad' may not be over - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 09:02:10 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- More "Breaking Bad" yo? The series star Bryan Cranston seemed to drop a major hint in an interview with CNN's Ashleigh Banfield Thursday night. Asked by Banfield if his character, Walter White, died or not, Cranston said, "Hey, you never saw bags zip up or anything. Or say ... you know." He left the rest up to viewers' imaginations. In response to questions about whether the character could show up in a movie or anywhere else ever again, Cranston said: "Never say never." Whoa. He may have been teasing, but that remark revived hopes for countless fans who still are mourning the loss of the character and the acclaimed series. The show literally went out with a bang in September 2013 and there was even a mock funeral held for the character in Albuquerque, New Mexico, where the series was set and filmed. Cranston has remained busy since the series ended, most recently starring in the summer film "Godzilla." And AMC has announced that "Breaking Bad" fans can look forward to a new series, "Better Call Saul," which will be a spinoff featuring criminal lawyer Saul Goodman. What say you diehard fans? Do you think Cranston was kidding or not?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/living/wedding-toasts-matrimony/index.html	living	You can't say that in your wedding toast! - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 09:38:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Bill Murray delivered an impromptu toast to a rowdy bachelor party in Charleston, South Carolina, last weekend, he gave poignant and charming advice for everyone but the groom. If you "have someone that you think is the one," he said, "and travel around the world ... if when you come back ... you're still in love with that person, get married at the airport." Murray's remarks were rewarded with thunderous applause, shouting and an "Amen" from one of the party-goers. As far as toasts go, he nailed it. Delivering the perfect toast is a skill honed over time and with practice -- which is unfortunate, since you'll probably be tapped for this honor on only a few occasions over your lifetime. Even more unfortunately, nothing can bring a wedding reception or rehearsal dinner to a grinding halt quite like a bad toast. We have both have been part of more wedding parties than we care to remember (and thanks to Champagne and open bars, more than we are able to remember). When it comes to the toast, we've seen them all: a few triumphs, some that were simply unremarkable and forgettable, and a lot of bombs. The types of best men and maids of honor are varied, but they all seem to fall into familiar categories -- as do the pitfalls of the toast they deliver. You've probably seen some of these yourself, and you might even be one of the offenders: The Frat Bro Probably the only time you'll be exposed to these toasts will be at weddings occurring soon after college. This toast is easily recognized by the exclamations of "dude!" peppered throughout as well as the inappropriate recalling of drunken tales from freshman year. The Safety in Numbers Public speaking is nerve-wracking, we get it. But calling for reinforcements usually just highlights the disparity between speakers and winds up being a game of hot potato of bridesmaids passing the microphone back and forth awkwardly. Go it alone, or don't go it all. The Edgar Allen NO Poems can be cute and poems can be cool, but giggling through a poem -- and proving you know how to rhyme -- only makes you sound like a tool. The Edgar Allen No/Safety in Numbers Combo What's worse than a nervous bridesmaid giggling through a poem? Two of them doing so as they alternate stanzas. Passing a piece of paper back and forth is distracting, and no matter how thoughtful the written message, it will be lost in the delivery. The Inside Joker The inside joker doesn't seem to get that inside jokes work only for those who are in on the joke. Rule: If you have to say "I guess you had to be there," then I guess you should leave it out. The Overly Emotional This "always a bridesmaid, never a bride" feels like she's losing her best friend while wearing a hideous dress and being reminded that she's nowhere close to walking down the aisle herself. She's understandably emotional but wants to uncomfortably choke through her remarks to let everyone know how incredibly happy she is for her friend. The Amateur Comedian Don't mistake the role of toast-giver for Roast Master General. You are not going to be discovered or tapped for "Saturday Night Live" based on your performance, so save the comedy routine for open-mic night. (Is this thing on?) The Wildly Inappropriate No blue language in front of anyone's GamGam, fellas. You're in a tuxedo, for crying out loud, so keep it classy. And whatever you do, don't get drunk beforehand. Need a little liquid courage to take the edge off? Fine, but know your limit. The bar will still be open afterward. So how do you avoid becoming one of these offenders? Consider these "do's" and "don'ts," and you can't go wrong: DO understand what is expected of you Maybe the wedding party is expecting toasts at the rehearsal dinner; maybe the parents and maid of honor or best man are the only ones slated to speak; maybe they couple isn't interested in toasts at all. Find out before you arrive to each wedding function what your friends are expecting of you so that you can prepare ahead of time. Ask the wedding planner or deejay if there will be a podium or a microphone so you can plan accordingly. DO keep it simple (and short) Remember, it's a toast, not a speech. Speeches are for politicians and football coaches. Wedding toasts are short and sweet ways to honoring others in a thoughtful but concise fashion. How do you pack in enough thoughtfulness and personality without lulling the room to sleep? Read on. DON'T be afraid to be creative And if you are thinking that means a poem, see above. Ideally, you'll want to tell a quick story or anecdote involving the people getting married. Don't have a sweet or funny one? Don't have one at all? Then exercise some creative license and go ahead and embellish if you need to; no one will fact check you. It's the sentiment that's important. DON'T read straight from notes Reading straight from a script is unengaging, and you should be more thoughtful to the person who thought enough of you to tap you for this honor. If you aren't looking up at your audience, attention will quickly turn elsewhere, most likely to a plate of tough chicken or a wine glass. If having a piece of paper with bullet points helps calm your nerves, fine, but speak from the heart and directly to the happy couple, and you can't go wrong. DON'T announce how nervous you are What's the point of that? If you are nervous, the heavy breathing, stammering and sweating will make that obvious enough -- saying it won't serve any purpose other than to tell the audience, "This is going to suck. I apologize in advance." It takes the focus away from the couple and puts it on you -- and it's not about you. DO acknowledge the parents of both parties They're probably paying for that top-shelf bourbon you're headed straight for right after you're done. DON'T be so specific Don't get tripped up on trivial details. Saying "our friendship dates all the way back to 2007" triggers calculations and runs the risk of eliciting a "I've had relationships with bunions longer than you two" from a cantankerous uncle. Quantifying or qualifying your relationship for the sake others serves no purpose; obviously, you are close to the betrothed. You wouldn't be up there if you weren't. DO speak slowly and enunciate When you are nervous, words come out a lot faster than you realize, and if people can't understand you, they are going to tune out. DO let moments breathe Whether they're laughs, applause or "awwwwws," let them marinate for a few moments before moving on to your next line. Doing this will not only let what you just said to soak in, it will give you a second or two to glance down at your cheat sheet. DON'T be afraid to call an audible No matter how much you plan and practice, no matter how you think your toast is going to go ahead of time, there can always be circumstances beyond your control that you simply must embrace. Maybe the weather didn't cooperate, maybe a mother-in-law fainted, maybe the minister's fly was down during the ceremony. No matter what it is, be nimble enough to adjust as needed. At the end of the wedding day, no matter how nervous you are, think about this: It's nothing compared to what your buddy is going through. Years of Pinterest-pinning preparation, saving, spending, intra-family bickering, meetings, fittings and tastings have all been endured for this one day. People have traveled from far and wide to be there for them, to celebrate the happy couple. No one goes to a wedding because of who is giving the toast. When you look at it that way, your task becomes simple -- so don't screw it up. Got a formula for the perfect toast? We'd love to hear it in the comments below.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/15/living/transgender-identity/index.html	living	Katie Couric's gaffe: What not to say to a transgender person - CNN.com	2014/01/15	Wednesday Jan 15 08:53:50 EST 2014	Editor's note: Transgender identity has been making headlines recently, and is currently on the cover of Time magazine. This piece was originally published January 15, and has been updated.  (CNN) -- Transgender women, it seems, are all the rage. Or more accurately, a great deal of transgender women seem to be popping up in mainstream media, their lives (and their lives as they lived them in the past) offered up for both audiences and journalists to pick through and scrutinizeand yes, sometimes marvel over. In some cases, there has been a gratuitous outing, like in Grantland's story about the inventor of a "Magical Putter". In others, there have been some ruffled feathers, as the mainstream world bumps up against the fact that transgender people are not only among us, but their lives are not so neatly summed up as having been "born into wrong bodies." This over-simplification of transpeople's lives was most recently on display when CNN's Piers Morgan seemed to follow fellow journalist Katie Couric's script of reducing transgender lives to "Before" and "After." Couric, as you may recall, interviewed model Carmen Carrera and "Orange is the New Black" star Laverne Cox on her daytime talk show. Cox and Carrera are both male-to-female transsexual women who are enjoying a level of mainstream success in their respective fields, and they were interviewed for an episode of Couric's show dubbed "Transgender Trailblazers." As a male transgender trailblazer myself -- meaning I was designated female at birth and transitioned to male later in life -- I watched the "Katie" show with fervent hope that the time had finally come when a transgender subject was not going to be asked about their private parts. My hopes were swiftly dashed the moment Couric stuttered to Carrera, "Your, your, your private parts are different now, aren't they?" 3. "I thought you were going to be scary, but you're so polite and normal." A woman who chauffeured me around a book fair once actually told me this, before admitting that she'd left her children at home when she learned whom she was tasked with driving. I think she thought it was a compliment, but it wasn't. Not even the "normal" part. 4. "I don't care; you'll always be a girl to me." It's true that your experience is your experience, and mine is my own. But it's simple, common decency to refer to people by both the pronouns and the names they prefer. (So don't continue to use a birth name if you happen to know it, and don't ask, "What's your real name?" if you don't.) Women have been taking their husbands' surnames for centuries, and generations of humans have had little problem making the switch along with them. It's not that difficult to be respectful, so maybe lay off lamenting how hard somebody's transition has been for you.  5. "Aren't you afraid of getting beaten up?" Thanks for reminding me about that. There was a time early in my transition when a pack of kids on the subway pulled a knife and taunted me, "You think you're a tough guy or something?" I'd managed not to worry about being a victim of a hate crime for a while before you brought it up! 6. "Meet my friend Tyson; he's a transgender!" It's not cool to out a transperson without his or her permission. It's a matter of respect and privacy. Sadly, it can also be a matter of personal safety. (Also: don't use "transgender" as a noun, while we're at it.) 7. "When did you realize you were gay?" I know this is confounding, but it's important to understand that sexuality (whom you're attracted to) and gender identity (what gender you identify as) are two different things, and often unrelated. Trans people can be gay, straight, bisexual, asexual, pansexual, really into gym socks -- basically any sexuality a nontrans person can express. 8. "When did you have 'The Surgery'?" And this brings us back to Couric's question about Carrera and Cox. There is no one surgery, and the fact is, transpeople have a wide variety of situations going on "down there," and everywhere else. Some have surgeries; others don't. Some take hormone therapy; others don't. Some can afford neither surgery nor hormones; some do one, but not the other. Others can and will do it "all," so to speak. No matter the specifics (nor how patriarchal the society), gender does not boil down to the presence or absence of a penis. Unless someone volunteers to talk about the subject, transgender people's private parts, like everybody else's, are best left private. So my hat goes off to Carrera and Cox for -- regardless of what's in their panties -- having the balls to say "No" to Couric's impolitic line of questioning. T Cooper is a novelist and author of the memoir "Real Man Adventures," a meditation on masculinity. He is co-founder, with his wife, of wearechangers.org, a new empathy project for young adults. His newest book is "Changers," a young adult novel which published February 4. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/living/spelling-bee-jacob-williamson/index.html	living	Spelling bee blues: From 'I totally know it!' to 'What!?' - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 10:20:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Jacob Williamson captured our h-e-a-r-t-s at the Scripps National Spelling Bee finals this week in Maryland. The 15-year-old was confident, enthusiastic and wore his emotions on his sleeve -- the perfect ingredients for a viral video. (Here is a gif from SB Nation): "I know it! I know it! I totally know it!" he said when he was given the word "kabaragoya" (a large lizard native to Asia). His excitement made viewers smile -- and then cringe when he misspelled the word with a C instead of a K. His reaction to learning his mistake was a stunned, "What!?" The video of his final mistake has made Williamson an Internet sensation. Here is his moment in the spotlight turned into a rap song.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/ramirez-data-brokers-ftc/index.html	opinion	Opinion: The secret eyes watching you shop - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 10:35:39 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Edith Ramirez is chairwoman of the Federal Trade Commission. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Who doesn't like getting those retail discounts or free gift coupons from their favorite stores? But did you know there were strings attached, invisible eyes tracking your every consumer move? And there's little you can do to stop it. We want to do something about that. Businesses have long sought to attract and retain customers by recording and analyzing your shopping and lifestyle habits. To do so, they often rely on "data brokers" -- companies that collect and share our personal information and label us based on what they learn. And they do this mostly without our knowledge. That fashionable handbag you found on sale? They know about it. That great deal you got on the BBQ grill from the hardware store? They're tracking that too. And that box of Cheerios? They already assumed you were going to buy that before you even entered the store. The data broker industry has been booming in recent years, due to new technologies that enable the collection of massive quantities of our personal information. Because of the sheer volume of data we leave in our wake when we shop, browse the web, order a magazine, or post to social media sites, we are largely giving them all this valuable information. Data brokers scoop up the digital breadcrumbs we leave as we shop in stores and online, and apply "big data" analytical tools to predict where we're going, what we'll buy, and what we'll do -- sometimes even before we know ourselves what we'll buy next. There's no question that the personal information that data brokers sell to retailers, financial firms, hotels, airlines and other businesses can provide benefits to consumers and our growing digital economy. It can help direct goods and services that are tailored to our interests and assisting businesses to combat fraud by verifying consumers' identities. They also take this information and use it to lump us into various, shorthand categories like "Affluent Baby Boomer" and "Bible Lifestyle." But if a data broker categorizes you as an "Urban Scrambler," meaning a low-income minority, are you more likely to receive an offer for a payday loan than a credit card? What are the implications of being labeled as "financially challenged?" Will it mean you are cut off from being offered the same goods and services, at the same prices, as your neighbors? Do you want a company to know that you have diabetes, high cholesterol, or another medical condition as long as it is willing to pay the going rate for health data? Most Americans don't even know that data brokers exist, let alone that they collect and trade a staggering amount of our personal data. Brokers operate invisibly, buying and selling data about us without interacting directly with us. Too few offer easy ways for us to access our information or opt-out of their system of data collection. The Federal Trade Commission, a bipartisan agency that works to protect consumers, is seeking to shed light on this largely unknown industry. The FTC has just released a detailed study of nine data brokers. We found that data brokers collect billions of pieces of data on nearly every American consumer, often merging online and offline information. Data brokers are also making potentially sensitive inferences about consumers -- about their health, financial status, and ethnic backgrounds. And consumers have little if any window into this process, let alone meaningful control or choice about how their data is shared among businesses. This week, the FTC has called on Congress to improve the transparency of the data broker industry, and to provide consumers more control over their personal information. We also recommend that Congress require data brokers to create a centralized website, among other measures, so that consumers can access their own data and opt out of data collection and retention. I also believe data brokers should be required to take reasonable steps to ensure consumer information is not used for unlawful purposes, such as to illegally discriminate. We need better transparency into how data brokers collect and use our personal information to help ensure that we not go down a path that leads to unfair exclusion, but rather one that widens opportunities for all consumers. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/mcmorris-rodgers-va-vets/index.html	opinion	McMorris: A broken VA is abandoning our veterans - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 10:26:05 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Washington, is chairwoman of the House Republican Conference and represents her state's 5th District. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- This is a story about two brothers. They grew up in eastern Washington, joined the Marines and fought in Iraq and Afghanistan after the terrorist attacks of September 11. The brothers served valiantly, in the name of American freedom, to defend liberty and democracy abroad. They saw battle and bloodshed, bore witness to the loss of life and faced the unforgettable and haunting realities of war. The brothers returned to America emotionally shattered, psychologically distraught and forever changed. And the Department of Veterans Affairs failed to treat them. Years later, like many of their comrades, these brothers, whose names we are keeping private, suffer from severe post-traumatic stress, anxiety, depression, physical disabilities and memory loss. One lives with severe head injuries because of the bombs that went off beside him in Fallujah. The other was afraid to admit his suicidal thoughts. And when he finally did, the VA locked him in a room for several torturous hours until they ultimately let him go -- without any treatment or assistance whatsoever. He was left alone to replay and relive the horrors of war. This is unacceptable and inexcusable. As the wife of a retired Navy commander and the representative of the district covering Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington, I see firsthand the permanent effects of war -- both physical and psychological -- on those who serve our country. Nearly 30% of today's veterans return from war with some kind of service-related disability -- often PTSD or traumatic brain injury -- and too often, the VA fails them. Though recent reports highlight the fundamental inefficiencies and mismanagement within the agency, the VA has failed to protect America's veterans for far too long. This is a serious problem, and it demands a serious solution. This issue is about more than the resignation of Secretary Eric Shinseki; it's about changing the structure and culture that have pervaded the VA for decades. The secretary is not the root of the problem; he's simply the face of it. We need to modernize an outdated agency, bring it into the 21st century and ensure that the VA is better equipped to treat the health and psychological issues that are unique to our veterans. Moreover, the culture of the VA needs to change: Right now, too many veterans feel as if the VA treats them like a burden, leaving them both alone and untreated in the aftermath of war. We need to address the systemic, structural issues within the VA -- the misallocation of resources, the interminably long waiting lists, the bureaucratic inefficiencies -- to ensure that our American heroes are properly protected the second they return home from war. The House has taken swift action to do just that. Last week, we passed the overwhelmingly bipartisan Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014, which holds the VA accountable for actions that are both egregious and preventable. We urge the Senate to take immediate action on this legislation so we can get it to the president's desk and signed into law. We cannot afford to waste more time. With 23 deaths already attributed to delayed care -- and many more in which "delay in treatment" has been listed as a factor -- we refuse to let another veteran lose his or her life for something that can be prevented. When one joins the military, he or she is promised health care for life. So we need to make sure that happens. I am proud to join Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller, R-Florida, in his legislation to allow veterans to seek outside care from private practitioners, paid for by the department, if they have been waiting more than 30 days for an appointment. Our veterans should be allowed to go to local doctors and hospitals to treat their physical conditions and rely on the VA for issues that are unique to their specific needs. It's time to bring the VA into the 21st century with stricter management, greater accountability and better care. While the agency has done great things -- such as its innovative work with prosthetics for disabled veterans or its telehealth system in regions like Spokane -- we need to take a closer look at the VA's infrastructure, its strategic plan and its allocation of resources. The agency needs greater accountability and transparency. But most of all, the VA needs to shift its priorities so the veteran is always the priority. We will keep fighting. We will fight to give veterans the care they deserve and were promised. We will fight to modernize the VA to meet the needs of today's service members. And we will fight for those two brothers in eastern Washington and for the millions of heroes just like them who have served America with unwavering resolve. They have protected us, and now we will protect them. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/business/google-right-to-be-forgotten/index.html	iBUSINESS	Opinion: World is not ready for Google 'right to be forgotten' decision - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 10:42:48 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Jodie Ginsberg is the chief executive of Index on Censorship, an international organization that promotes and defends the right to freedom of expression. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- The Internet has radically altered many things, not least the speed at which we all share and receive information, and the depth of the information available. Before the Internet, information about individuals (that they did not choose to share with you themselves) could only be found by finding others who knew the individual or by trawling through media archives. The Internet changed all that. Now, at the touch of a button, it is possible to call up a huge amount of information about individuals -- not just public figures, but "ordinary" people, all sorted by search engines in complicated, secretive ways over which we have no control. This, many argue, is a major flaw in the system that needs fixing. Why should Google, Yahoo or any other search engine be the arbiter of what information others see about me when they run a search? What if the information that is returned in that search is "irrelevant" or "outdated" and no longer reflects who I am -- or indeed causes people to treat me differently? These worries are understandable. But the solution proposed by the European Union Court of Justice earlier this month is not the answer. Recognizing people's concerns about their privacy, the European court ruled that individuals had the "right to be forgotten" -- that they should be allowed to request search engines to remove information considered "irrelevant, outdated, or otherwise inappropriate" and that the search engines would have to remove this material from search indices except in public interest cases. It is this gray area that is of concern to Index on Censorship. Search engines are not public bodies -- and while there is a legitimate reason to worry about the way in which these organizations present search results, the way to fix that is certainly not through a vague and woolly ruling that leaves decisions about what is and is not in the public interest in the hands of a private body. There is no legal oversight or appeals process built in to the ruling -- the court simply leaves it up to Google and others to decide (independently of one another, a further recipe for chaos and confusion) what is and is not in the public interest. Much has been made of the fact that the ruling would exclude public figures -- but that misses the point. It is not so much current public figures wanting to whitewash their personal histories that should worry us, but the potential for those who may become important public figures -- or simply be relevant to us for other reasons (because they want to sell us products or join us in business, say) -- many years hence, to have links to information about them deleted now, making it almost impossible to find in future. Index urges the court to put a stay on its ruling while it pursues a regulatory framework that will provide legal oversight, an appeals process and ensure that private corporations are not the arbiters of public information. While it is clearly understandable that individuals should want to be able to control their online presence, the court's ruling fails to offer sufficient checks and balances to ensure that a desire to alter search requests so that they reflect a more "accurate" profile does not simply become a mechanism for censorship and whitewashing of history. READ MORE: Opinion: We have the right to be forgotten READ MORE: Something in your past you'd rather forget? The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the Jodie Ginsberg. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/us/department-of-veterans-affairs-fast-facts/index.html	us	Department of Veterans Affairs Fast Facts - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 10:48:33 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Here is a look at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Facts:  There are approximately 21.4 million veterans in the United States.  President Barack Obama has requested an appropriation of $163.9 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs in the 2015 Budget, a 6.5% increase over the 2014 Budget. The 2015 Budget proposal includes $59.1 billion allocated for medical care, about 36% of the total. More than 58% of the budget goes towards mandatory benefits programs, including disability compensation and pensions. In 2013, the VA had 312,841 full-time equivalent employees. Among VA operations are 151 medical centers and 827 outpatient clinics. The VA served over six million people in 2013. In 2013, the average wait time to complete a disability evaluation was 78 days, according to the VA. Timeline:  1789 - The new U.S. government passes legislation ensuring pensions for disabled Revolutionary War veterans. 1812 - The Naval Home, a facility for disabled veterans, opens in Philadelphia. 1833 - Congress establishes the Bureau of Pensions to assist veterans. 1862 - During the Civil War, Congress passes a bill allowing the president to purchase land for national cemeteries. Between 1865 and 1870, 70 national cemeteries open for burial of Union soldiers. 1865 - At the end of the U.S Civil War, there are 1.9 million Union veterans. Congress authorizes the National Asylum of Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, a system of residences for disabled and indigent veterans. 1912 - Congress passes the Sherwood Act, guaranteeing pensions for Union veterans of the Civil War and veterans of the Mexican-American War, regardless of their health. 1924 - Congress passes the World War Adjustment Compensation Act, a system of bonuses for veterans of World War I. Any veteran entitled to more than $50 is given a certificate payable 20 years in the future and worth about $1,500. July 21, 1930 - President Herbert Hoover signs an executive order consolidating the Veterans' Bureau, the Bureau of Pensions and the National Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers into the Veterans Administration. The VA has a budget of $786 million and serves 4.6 million veterans. 1931-1941 - The VA builds 27 new hospitals, bringing the total to 91. 1932 - During the Great Depression, thousands of World War I veterans march on Washington, DC, to demand payment of their bonuses. After the marchers are forcibly removed, the VA pays their transportation costs home. Congress authorizes early payment of the bonuses in 1936. 1933 - The VA establishes the Board of Veterans' Appeals. June 22, 1944 - During World War II, President Franklin Roosevelt signs into law the Servicemen's Readjustment Act, also known as the "G.I. Bill of Rights," a package of education benefits, federally guaranteed loans, and unemployment compensation. 1945 - At the end of World War II, there are approximately 15 million veterans in the United States, and all 97 VA hospitals are filled to capacity. In response, the VA opens 54 new hospitals over the next five years. 1958 - Congress pardons Confederate service members and extends benefits to the one remaining survivor. 1973 - The VA takes over the administration of the National Cemetery System, with the exception of Arlington National Cemetery and the Soldier's Home National Cemetery. 1979 - Congress orders the VA to study the effects on veterans of the Agent Orange defoliant used in Vietnam. 1983 - The Agent Orange study is transferred to the Centers for Disease Control. 1984 - President Ronald Reagan signs a bill requiring the VA to pay benefits to Vietnam veterans suffering from chloracne or porphyria cutanea tarda, possibly caused by Agent Orange exposure. 1988 - The U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims is founded. It gives those who served in the military a chance to challenge individual decisions made by the Department of Veterans Affairs. March 15, 1989 - President Reagan signs legislation elevating the Veterans Administration to Cabinet status, and renaming it the Department of Veterans Affairs. 1991 - President George H.W. Bush signs into law a bill compensating Vietnam veterans exposed to Agent Orange and suffering from non-Hodgkins' lymphoma or soft tissue sarcoma . March 1991 - The VA orders Veterans Affairs Medical Center, in North Chicago, to stop performing vascular and orthopedic surgeries after the deaths of more than 40 patients in 1989 and 1990. After a review of the cases, the VA accepts responsibility for the deaths of eight patients. 1996 - President Bill Clinton orders the VA to provide benefits to Vietnam Veterans who develop prostate cancer or peripheral neuropathy after a National Academy of Sciences suggests there is a link between those diseases and Agent Orange exposure. 2006 - Two teens steal a laptop computer and external hard drive containing the personal information of approximately 26 million veterans from the home of a VA data analyst. The laptop and hard drive are later recovered and FBI testing suggests that the data was never accessed. In 2009, the VA pays $20 million to settle a class action lawsuit brought by veterans. February 2009 - The VA notifies more than 6,000 patients who went to Alvin C. York VA Medical Center in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, that they may have been exposed to infectious diseases at the clinic due to contaminated endoscopic equipment. February 2009 - The Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center in Augusta, Georgia, notifies more than 1,200 people that they may have been treated with contaminated equipment. March 2009 - The VA sends letters to more than 3,000 people who may have had colonoscopies at VA facilities in Miami, warning that they may have been exposed to hepatitis and HIV. According to hospital officials, a review of safety procedures found that tubing used in endoscope procedures was rinsed but not disinfected. 2010 - The VA notifies more than 1,800 veterans treated at the John Cochran VA hospital in St. Louis that they may have been exposed to infectious diseases during dental procedures. July 2010 - The VA unveils new regulations making it easier for men and women who served in the armed forces to receive benefits for post-traumatic stress disorder. Under the new rules a veteran only needs to demonstrate that he or she served in a war and performed a job during which events could have happened that could cause the disorder. November 2010 - The VA announces that it will cover disability compensation for an additional three diseases linked to Agent Orange exposure among Vietnam veterans. They are hairy cell leukemia, Parkinson's disease and ischemic heart disease. 2011 - Nine Ohio veterans test positive for hepatitis after routine dental work at a VA clinic in Dayton, Ohio. A dentist at the VA medical center there acknowledged not washing his hands or even changing gloves between patients for 18 years. February 2011-November 2012 - An outbreak of Legionnaires' Disease at VA facilities in Pennsylvania kills at least six veterans. November 2013 - A CNN investigation shows that veterans are dying because of long waits and delayed care at U.S. veterans hospitals. The VA has confirmed six deaths tied to delays at the Williams Jennings Bryan Dorn Veterans Medical Center in Columbia, South Carolina. April 2014 - Retired VA physician Dr. Sam Foote tells CNN that the Phoenix Veterans Affairs Health Care system maintained a secret list of patient appointments, designed to hide the fact that patients were waiting months to be seen. At least 40 patients died while waiting for appointments, according to Foote, though it is not clear they were all on secret lists. May 9, 2014 - The scheduling scandal widens as a Cheyenne, Wyoming, VA employee is placed on administrative leave after an email surfaces in which the employee discusses "gaming the system a bit" to manipulate waiting times. The suspension comes a day after a scheduling clerk in San Antonio admitted to "cooking the books" to shorten apparent waiting times. Three days later, two employees in Durham, North Carolina, are placed on leave over similar allegations. May 20, 2014 - The VA's Office of the Inspector General announces it is investigating 26 agency facilities for allegations of doctored waiting times. May 28, 2014 - A preliminary report by the VA's inspector general indicates at least 1,700 veterans waiting to see a doctor were never scheduled for an appointment and were never placed on a wait list at the Veterans Affairs medical center in Phoenix.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/sport/football/world-cup-outsiders-darfur-football/index.html	iSport	The World Cup for outsiders: From genocide to glory - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 11:19:03 EDT 2014	Join the World Cup conversation at CNN Facebook Pulse (CNN) -- Ahead of the biggest game of his life, Mahamat "Iggy" Ignegui has mastered the diplomatic language, if not his nerves. "I am completely focused on the first match. We have to do it, we cannot lose," the Sudanese midfielder tells CNN before boarding a plane from Chad's Ndjamena airport that will continue his remarkable journey to the World Cup. This showpiece event will not feature Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi, or any of the other household football names that will light up Brazil this summer. Instead, teams such as South Ossetia, Iraqi Kurdistan and Tamil Sri Lanka will do battle for the Nelson Mandela trophy in Sweden. This is a tournament for the stateless, the marginalized and unrecognized by FIFA -- the ConIFA World Cup. No team has traveled further or struggled harder to make it to Ostersund than Darfur United. The squad is entirely made up of refugees from the conflict that claimed over 200,000 lives, now living in the neglected camps of East Chad. Eleven years on from the conflict, foreign aid and interest has dried up, with rations cut in half and the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) reporting over 50% prevalence of chronic malnutrition in the camps. "Life in the camps is better than Sudan now," says Ignegui, recalling that in his village even the sheep were killed and every house was destroyed. "But they destroy youth. We need to improve our skills and go to university. But there are no good schools or hospitals, nothing to do. We need to get out." Football is providing that release. In Istanbul. It has not been easy, but oh so worth it! pic.twitter.com/sQDFwzOpBu The camps had always played the game, with cloth balls in the scorching heat, but with the support of U.S.-based humanitarian group i-ACT, a new team was formed in 2012. Thousands of hopefuls from 12 camps participated in tryouts, many traveling for days at their own expense. This was whittled down to a squad of 16 players, who traveled to Iraq for the 2012 Viva World Cup just months after forming, and played their first match in a 15-0 defeat to Northern Cyprus, before Moubarak Haggar Dougom scored their first goal in a 5-1 loss to Western Sahara. Ignegui admits that team-building was a challenge at first. "We were from five different tribes, all with their own language, so nobody understood each other and everybody was fighting," the 25-year-old says. "But after 10 days of training together we changed our behavior to respect each other, and became like brothers." That spirit gave rise to their name. While the children of the camps wear the shirts of Real Madrid and Barcelona, Darfur United borrowed its badge from Manchester. Two years on, the team has benefited from regular training under professional coach Mark Hodson. Participation has grown, with 900 girls and boys playing at the new Soccer Academy in Djabal Camp, and several more are planned, while a women's team will be launched next year. But despite such development, the team's attendance in Ostersund was always in the balance. "Everything came down to the wire," says Katie-Jay Scott Stauring, i-ACT's director of operations and community involvement. "We had a 72-hour fundraising drive to raise $1,850 per player and coach. We made it in time with six minutes to the deadline to pay for the team's airline tickets." The stress did not stop there, with delays for visas again threatening their participation, as well as diplomatic complications between embassies, before the team was finally allowed to travel. That Darfur United's players will be lining up in Sweden is a reflection of the international goodwill and support behind them. From the volunteer coaches and assistants, to donations received from football fans around the world. NBA basketball star Tracy McGrady contributed the team's kits, and a printing house supplied the logos free of charge, while Turkish Airlines bent its rules for travel requirements. "We are now brothers." Ismail, new DU player from camp Touloum, about teammates coming from different camps/tribes. pic.twitter.com/AeFiCCWt6b The team will have a difficult assignment in Sunday's opening match against tournament favorite Padania, of the Po' Valley region in northern Italy. While the area was associated with the far-right Lega Nord party, the team now promotes an inclusive message, represented by star player Enock Barwuah -- brother of Italy international Mario Balotelli, who will line up at Brazil 2014. "It's the first time I play for Padania and I said yes straight away," says Barwuah. "I was born here, and lived here, so I feel a connection. It's a great experience to play with teams from around the world." Barwuah admits he knows little about his first opponents, but is keen to learn more. There are two main purposes to the tournament, says ConIFA president and former referee Per Anders Blind. "We work to support ethnicities and isolated regions, and also to educate the world about them, to know they exist and who they are. To show their culture, heritage and traditions." This is the largest tournament to date for stateless peoples -- replacing the poorly organized Viva events -- with a record 12 teams, and Blind sees limitless potential. "There are 5,500 ethnicities and regions that cannot play. FIFA have 209 members and we can easily double that," he says. "ConIFA is only 10 months old and members say we have accomplished more than Viva did in 10 years. Sponsors realize we are opening up a whole new market. There are 40 million Kurdish people without a state, for example." The knockout rounds are expected to sell out in the admittedly modest 6,000-capacity stadiums, and there is evidence of growing public interest in the outposts of football, away from the traditional powerhouses of the game. We did it! We raised the funds needed to purchase airplane tkts to Sweden! Watch out world, here comes @DarfurUnited! #GoDU! #WEdidit The story of American Samoa, the world's worst international team, has generated a hit book and film. "There are so many teams who fall outside the FIFA framework and it's very valuable to give them recognition," says Paul Watson, an English football journalist who managed Pacific Island Pohnpei, and now Mongolia. "The ConIFA competition will give a lot of people a chance to express their identity through football and that's a very valuable thing." For Ignegui, it is priceless. "Football has bought joy to a group that has not had good news in a long time. People in our camps are so proud and happy with this team when they see us representing them in the tournament," he says. "It has made a lot of difference to our lives. After 11 years in our small tents, something like this seemed impossible, just a dream." Although Darfur United's players are desperate to bring the trophy home, perhaps their most important battle has already been won. Read: '31-0 - On the Road with Football's Outsiders'  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/seth-macfarlane-a-million-ways-to-die-in-the-west/index.html	entertainment	Seth MacFarlane: Renaissance man - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 11:32:00 EDT 2014	Editor's note: "CNN Spotlight: Seth MacFarlane" focuses on the comedian's remarkable career and airs Friday at 10 p.m. EST. (CNN) -- Seriously, is there anything Seth MacFarlane doesn't do? Writer, actor, director, singer, producer, voice of beloved animated characters and awards show host. The world is about to see if leading man is yet another title MacFarlane can add to his already extensive Hollywood resume. MacFarlane's film "A Million Ways to Die in the West" opens this weekend, and it is first time he's heading up a cast as a real live actor. The film spoofs old-fashioned Westerns. MacFarlane plays Albert Stark, a sheep farmer who is far from enthused about living in the West. Of course, it's not his first movie. MacFarlane wrote and directed the 2012 film "Ted" as well as voiced the foul-mouthed, stuffed bear around which the plot revolves. But this is the first time MacFarlane himself has stepped into the spotlight, which begs an obvious question. "Does 'A Million Ways to Die in the West' certify Mr. MacFarlane as a bona fide movie star," asks The New York Times' Stephen Holden. "It's too soon to tell. He demonstrates enough confidence to emerge relatively unscathed from the movie, which he produced, directed and wrote (with Alec Sulkin and Wellesley Wild), but he is far from imperial. At the same time, you wonder if someone else (maybe Jim Carrey) could have given Albert a stronger personality." MacFarlane's career began at a fairly young age. He told Bill Maher during a CNN interview that he began drawing as a toddler. "I would watch 'Woody Woodpecker' and Fred Flintstone and whatnot, and I would -- my parents saved sketches that I did that are crude but oddly recognizable," MacFarlane said.  It was while he was a student at the Rhode Island School of Design that he began developing what would ultimately become the hit Fox animated series "Family Guy." He went on to develop more animated shows: "American Dad!" and "The Cleveland Show." MacFarlane told Rolling Stone in 2012 that he believed "Family Guy" was often unfairly dismissed as "frat boy humor," though he admitted that there is plenty of that. "But we try to include an equal amount of intelligent humor," he told the magazine. "If it makes you laugh, what's wrong with that? There's room for both highbrow and lowbrow." The success of his critically acclaimed 2011 jazz album, "Music Is Better Than Words" (it was nominated for two Grammys) has led to a deal for a reported forthcoming Christmas album. And he is one of the producers of the rebooted "Cosmos: A Space Time Odyssey" television series. That's not to say that everything MacFarlane has touched has been golden. His live-action Fox comedy "Dads" starring another Seth (Green) and Giovanni Ribisi was panned by critics from the onset and was recently canceled. And his stint as the host of the 2013 Academy Awards telecast left viewers divided.  His "Million Ways to Die in the West" co-star Charlize Theron praised his versatility. "He's fantastic," she said. "He wears every single hat which was about 150 that he wore in this move really well like just a seasoned pro. I mean there was nothing about him that said to me he was a first-time actor or a -- I think we were all very impressed by just how effortlessly he did all of it." As for MacFarlane, he said he had a very simple reason for stepping in front of the camera. "I like a challenge," he said. "I like taking a risk, something I haven't done before."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/asia/pakistani-honor-killing/index.html	world	Pakistani police investigated for inaction in woman's stoning death - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 11:30:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Police officers will be investigated because they didn't intervene when a group beat a woman to death in a Pakistani "honor killing," a court official said Friday. Lahore High Court Chief Justice Tassaduq Hussain Jillani,speaking live on state TV, said he's asked the police inspector general to provide a full report on the Tuesday stoning death of Farzana Parveen, 25 and three months pregnant, outside a court building in Lahore. "I have also ordered that a case be filed against the police officers present at the crime scene," he said, because it appears the "cops helped the criminals by watching the crime as silent spectator." Parveen was apparently killed because she married a man against her family's wishes. Arrested so far are her father, two cousins, an uncle and a driver, police said. Sophia Saifi of CNN reported from Islamabad. Aliza Kassim reported and wrote in Atlanta. Ralph Ellis wrote in Atlanta. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/astonishing-origami-exhibit/index.html	world	Astonishing origami exhibit displays dance of art and science - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 11:47:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When origami enthusiast Uyen Nguyen discusses her art, you quickly understand that it is about a lot more than folding paper. "In many ways it has been therapeutic," she says. "I find the process of folding paper to be almost meditative. "Origami can be used to create incredibly realistic forms, not just to the likeness of say, an insect, but down to the exact species of that particular insect with proportions of its body segment true to real life. At the other end of the spectrum, you can mold paper to create the most abstract of forms beautiful because of their inherent structure instead of their likeness to real life forms. As someone interested in both science and art, I love that origami bridges the two." Worldwide movement Now Nguyen is bringing her passion to the people of New York City. For the exhibition Surface to Structure: Folded Forms, which will take place at New York's Cooper Union from June 19 to July 4, Nguyen has gathered more than 130 works from 88 artists around the world. The exhibition includes adorable rabbits folded by Malaysian organist Ng Boon Choon, and a realistic rendering of a field mouse by American Bernie Peyton. But it also includes "St. Michael -- The Archangel", a more ominous work by Vietnamese origamist Tran Trung Hieu. It shows a winged angel carrying a sword. The exhibition marks the 55th anniversary of the 1959 exhibition Plane Geometry and Fancy Figures -- the first origami exhibition held in the United States, which also took place inside Cooper Union. So far Nguyen has raised more than $24,000 of the $32,000 she needs to cover the cost of shipping the works, organizing security and building display cases. Collectively the works demonstrate how origami artists are pushing the boundaries of technique and style. Transcending language barriers In the 1950s, Japanese organist Akira Yoshizawa helped popularize the art by creating a universal system of diagramming, which involved arrows and illustrations rather than words. His book allowed people across the world to learn the craft and to easily construct pre-existing designs. But today artists have moved beyond that, with many using software that helps them dream up and then fold their elaborate works. "Most origami involves folding one sheet of paper into some final form," Nguyen says. "Modular origami uses multiple sheets of paper, folded into identical units, and takes these units and interlocks them, without cuts or adhesive, to obtain a final form that is usually very angular and representative of geometric solids. A couple of my designs add embellishments onto the surfaces of these polyhedra." Regional variations in the art are becoming smaller and smaller as more people learn about origami via the Internet. However, Nguyen says that she observed a few patterns among artists while curating her exhibition. Vietnamese artists tend to be masters of wet folding, which creates soft, gentle bends rather than sharp creases. "Their styles can be somewhat minimalist, and there is so much beauty in their simplicity," she says. "The Japanese tend to be more calculated and precise with their folding, which can allow for a huge amount of detail and complexity. I think the European style of origami lies somewhere between these two extremes." Read more: Origami -- a perfect blend of math and art Read more: Amazing technicolor coats of Sydney Opera House Read more: Intricate gems from Malaysia's golden age of jewelry reveal cross road of cultures  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/politics/obama-va-statement/index.html	politics	President Obama's statement on Eric Shinseki - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 12:06:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Good morning, everybody. A few minutes Secretary Shinseki and Rob Nabors, who I've temporarily assigned to work with the V.A., presented me with the department's initial review of the V.A. facilities nationwide. And what they found is that the misconduct has not been limited to a few V.A. facilities, but many across the country. This is totally unacceptable. All veterans deserve the best. They have earned it. Last week I said that if we found misconduct, it would be punished, and I meant it. Secretary Shinseki has now begun the process of firing many of the people responsible, including senior leaders at the Phoenix V.A. He's canceled any possible performance bonuses this year for VHA senior executives. And he has ordered the V.A. to personally contact every veteran in Phoenix waiting for appointments to get them the care that they need and that they deserve. And this morning, I think some of you also heard Ric take a truly remarkable action. In public remarks, he took responsibility for the conduct of those facilities, and apologized to his fellow veterans and to the American people. And a few minutes ago, Secretary Shinseki offered me his own resignation. And with considerable regret, I accepted. Ric Shinseki has served his country with honor for nearly 50 years. He did two tours of combat in Vietnam. He's a veteran who left a part of himself on the battlefield. He rose to command the 1st Cavalry Division, served as Army chief of staff, and has never been afraid to speak truth to power. As secretary of the V.A., he presided over record investments in our veterans, enrolling 2 million new veterans in health care and delivering disability pay to more Vietnam veterans exposed to Agent Orange, making it easier for veterans with post-traumatic stress, mental health issues and traumatic brain injury to get treatment, improving care for our women veterans. At the same time, he helped reduce veteran homelessness and helped more than 1 million veterans, servicemembers and their families pursue their education under the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill. So Ric's commitment to our veterans is unquestioned. His service to our country is exemplary. I am grateful for his service, as are many veterans across the country. He has worked hard to investigate and identify the problems with access to care. But as he told me this morning, the V.A. needs new leadership to address them. He does not want to be a distraction because his priority is to fix the problem and make sure our vets are getting the care that they need. That was Ric's judgment on behalf of his fellow veterans. And I agree. We don't have time for distractions. We need to fix the problem. For now, the leader that will help move us forward is Sloan Gibson, who will take on the reins as acting secretary. Sloan became deputy secretary at the V.A. just three months ago, but he, too, has devoted his life to serving our country and our veterans. His grandfather fought on the front lines of World War I. His father was a tailgunner in World War II. Sloan graduated from West Point. Earned his airborne and ranger qualifications and served in the infantry. And, most recently, he was president and CEO of the USO, which does a remarkable job supporting our men and women at war, their families, our wounded warriors, and families of the fallen. So, all told, Sloan has 20 years of private sector and non-profit experience that he brings to bear on our ongoing work to build a 21st century V.A. And I'm grateful that he is willing to take on this task. I met with Sloan after I met with Ric this morning, and made it clear that reforms should not wait. They need to proceed immediately. I've also asked Rob Nabors to stay at the V.A. temporarily to help Sloan and the department through this transition and to complete his own review of the VHA. In the meantime, we're going to look diligently for a new permanent V.A. secretary, and we hope to confirm that successor and fill that post as soon as possible. And we're going to do right by our veterans across the board, as long as it takes. We're not going to stop working to make sure that they get the care, the benefit and the opportunities that they've earned and they deserve. I said we wouldn't tolerate misconduct, and we will not. I said that we have to do better, and we will. There are too many veterans receiving care right now who deserve all of our best efforts, and an honest assessment if something is not working. And this week, I visited some of our men and women in uniform at different stages of their service. Our newest Army officers who graduated from West Point. Our troops currently serving in Afghanistan. Our veterans and our military families at Arlington. And what I saw is what I've seen in every single servicemember, veteran and military spouse that I have had the privilege to meet: a selfless, clear-eyed commitment to serving their country the best way that they know how. They're the best that our country has to offer. They do their duty. They expect us to do ours. So today, I want every man and woman who served under our flag to know whether your tour has been over for decades or is just about to end, we will never stop working to do right by you and your families.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/23/politics/va-scandals-timeline/index.html	politics	The VA's troubled history - CNN.com	2014/05/23	Friday May 23 02:06:43 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Scandal, controversy and veterans care in the United States have gone hand-in-hand for virtually as long as there's been a republic. After the Revolutionary War, for instance, payments promised by Congress to disabled veterans were left up to the states, and only a few thousand of those who served ever received anything, according to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Here's a time line of the many scandals the department and its predecessors have faced: 1921 -- Congress creates the Veterans Bureau to administer assistance to World War I veterans. It quickly devolves into corruption, and is abolished nine years later under a cloud of scandal. 1930 -- The Veterans Administration is established to replace the troubled Veterans Bureau and two other agencies involved in veterans' care. 1932 -- Thousands of World War I veterans and their families march on Washington to demand payment of promised war bonuses. In an embarrassing spectacle, federal troops forcibly remove veterans who refuse to end their protest. 1945 -- President Harry Truman accepts the resignation of VA Administrator Frank Hines after a series of news reports detailing shoddy care in VA-run hospitals, according to a 2010 history produced by the Independent Institute. 1946 -- The American Legion leads the charge seeking the ouster of VA Administrator Gen. Omar Bradley, citing an ongoing lack of facilities, troubles faced by hundreds of thousands of veterans in getting services and a proposal to limit access to services for some combat veterans, according to the 2010 history. 1947 -- A government commission on reforming government uncovers enormous waste, duplication and inadequate care in the VA system and calls for wholesale changes in the agency's structure. 1955 -- A second government reform commission again finds widespread instances of waste and poor care in the VA system, according to the Independent Institute. 1970s -- Veterans grow increasingly frustrated with the VA for failing to better fund treatment and assistance programs, and later to recognize exposure to the herbicide Agent Orange by troops in Vietnam as the cause for numerous medical problems among veterans. 1972 -- Vietnam veteran Ron Kovic, the subject of the book and movie, "Born on the Fouth of July," interrupts Richard Nixon's GOP presidential nomination acceptance speech, saying, according to his biography, "I'm a Vietnam veteran. I gave America my all, and the leaders of this government threw me and others away to rot in their VA hospitals." 1974 -- Kovic leads a 19-day hunger strike at a federal building in Los Angeles to protest poor treatment of veterans in VA hospitals. He and fellow veterans demand to meet with VA Director Donald Johnson. The embattled director eventually flies to California to meet with the activists, but leaves after they reject his demand to meet in the VA's office in the building, according to Johnson's 1999 Los Angeles Times obituary. The ensuing uproar results in widespread criticism of Johnson. A few weeks later, Johnson resigns after President Richard Nixon announces an investigation into VA operations. 1976 -- A General Accounting Office investigation into Denver's VA hospital finds numerous shortcomings in patient care, including veterans whose surgical dressings are rarely changed. The GAO also looked at the New Orleans VA hospital, and found ever-increasing patient loads were contributing to a decline in the quality of care there, as well. 1981 -- Veterans camp out in front of the Wadsworth Veterans Medical Center in Los Angeles after the suicide of a former Marine who had rammed the hospital's lobby with his Jeep and fired shots into the wall after claiming the VA had failed to attend to his service-related disabilities, the New York Times reported at the time. 1982 -- Controversial VA director Robert Nimmo, who once described symptoms of exposure to the herbicide Agent Orange during the Vietnam war as little more than "teenage acne," resigns under pressure from veteran's groups. Nimmo was criticized for wasteful spending, including use of a chauffeured car and an expensive office redecorating project, according to a 1983 GAO investigation. The same year, the agency issues a report supporting veterans' claims that the VA had failed to provide them with enough information and assistance about Agent Orange exposure. 1984 -- Congressional investigators find evidence that VA officials had diverted or refused to spend more than $40 million that Congress approved to help Vietnam veterans with readjustment problems, the Washington Post reports at the time. 1986 -- The VA's Inspector General's office finds 93 physicians working for the agency have sanctions against their medical licenses, including suspensions and revocations, according to a 1988 GAO report. 1989 -- President Ronald Reagan signs legislation elevating the Veterans Administration to Cabinet status, creating the Department of Veterans Affairs. 1991 -- The Chicago Tribune reports that doctors at the VA's North Chicago hospital sometimes ignored test results, failed to treat patients in a timely manner and conducted unnecessary surgery. The agency later takes responsibility for the deaths of eight patients, leading to the suspension of most surgery at the center, the newspaper reported. 1993 -- VA Deputy Undersecretary of Benefits R.J. Vogel testifies to Congress that a growing backlog of appeals from veterans denied benefits is due to a federal court established in 1988 to oversee the claims process, the Washington Post reports. The VA, Vogel tells the lawmakers, is "reeling under this judicial review thing." 1999 -- Lawmakers open an investigation into widespread problems with clinical research procedures at the VA West Los Angeles Healthcare Center. The investigation followed years of problems at the hospital, including ethical violations by hospital researchers that included failing to get consent from some patients before conducting research involving them, according to the Los Angeles Times. 2000 -- The GAO finds "substantial problems" with the VA's handling of research trials involving human subjects. 2001 -- Despite a 1995 goal to reduce waiting times for primary care and specialty appointments to less than 30 days, the GAO finds that veterans still often wait more than two months for appointments. 2003 -- A commission appointed by President George W. Bush reports that as of January 2003, some 236,000 veterans had been waiting six months or more for initial or follow-up visits, "a clear indication," the commission said, "of lack of sufficient capacity or, at a minimum, a lack of adequate resources to provide the required care." 2005 -- An anonymous tip leads to revelations of "significant problems with the quality of care" for surgical patients at the VA's Salisbury, North Carolina, hospital, according to congressional testimony. One veteran who sought treatment for a toenail injury died of heart failure after doctors failed to take account of his enlarged heart, according to testimony. 2006 -- Sensitive records containing the names, Social Security numbers and birth dates of 26.5 million veterans are stolen from the home of a VA employee who did not have authority to take the materials. VA officials think the incident was a random burglary and not a targeted theft. 2007 -- Outrage erupts after documents released to CNN show some senior VA officials received bonuses of up to $33,000 despite a backlog of hundreds of thousands of benefits cases and an internal review that found numerous problems, some of them critical, at VA facilities across the nation. 2009 -- The VA discloses that than 10,000 veterans who underwent colonoscopies in Tennessee, Georgia and Florida were exposed to potential viral infections due to poorly disinfected equipment. Thirty-seven tested positive for two forms of hepatitis and six tested positive for HIV. VA Director Eric Shinseki initiates disciplinary actions and requires hospital directors to provide written verification of compliance with VA operating procedures. The head of the Miami VA hospital is removed as a result, the Miami Herald reports. 2011 -- Nine Ohio veterans test positive for hepatitis after routine dental work at a VA clinic in Dayton, Ohio. A dentist at the VA medical center there acknowledged not washing his hands or even changing gloves between patients for 18 years. 2011 -- An outbreak of Legionnaires' Disease begins at the VA hospital in Oakland, Pennsylvania, according to the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. At least five veterans die of the disease over the next two years. In 2013, the newspaper discloses VA records showed evidence of widespread contamination of the facility dating back to 2007. 2012 -- The VA finds that the graves of at least 120 veterans in agency-run cemeteries are misidentified. The audit comes in the wake of a scandal at the Army's Arlington National Cemetery involving unmarked graves and incorrectly placed burials. 2013 -- The former director of Veteran Affairs facilities in Ohio, William Montague, is indicted on charges he took bribes and kickbacks to steer VA contracts to a company that does business with the agency nationwide. January 2014 -- CNN reports that at least 19 veterans died at VA hospitals in 2010 and 2011 because of delays in diagnosis and treatment. April 9 -- Lawmakers excoriate VA officials at a hearing. "This is an outrage! This is an American disaster!" says Rep. Jackie Walorski. April 23 -- At least 40 veterans died while waiting for appointments to see a doctor at the Phoenix Veterans Affairs Health Care system, CNN reports. The patients were on a secret list designed to hide lengthy delays from VA officials in Washington, according to a recently retired VA doctor and several high-level sources. April 28 -- President Barack Obama calls for an investigation into the situation in Phoenix. April 30 -- Top officials at the Phoenix VA deny the existence of a secret appointment waiting list. May 1 -- Shinseki places the director of the Phoenix VA and two aides on administrative leave pending the investigation into the veterans' deaths. May 5 -- Veterans groups call for Shinseki's resignation. American Legion National Commander Daniel Dillinger says the deaths reported by CNN appear to be part of a "pattern of scandals that has infected the entire system." May 6 -- Despite the clamor for Shinseki's ouster, White House spokesman Jay Carney says Obama "remains confident in Secretary Shinseki's ability to lead the department and take appropriate action." Shinseki tells the Wall Street Journal he will not resign. May 8 -- The House Veterans Affairs Committee votes to subpoena Shinseki and others in relation to the Phoenix scandal. May 9 -- The scheduling scandal widens as a Cheyenne, Wyoming, VA employee is placed on administrative leave after an email surfaces in which the employee discusses "gaming the system a bit" to manipulate waiting times. The suspension comes a day after a scheduling clerk in San Antonio admitted to "cooking the books" to shorten apparent waiting times. Three days later, two employees in Durham, North Carolina, are placed on leave over similar allegations. May 15 -- Shinseki testifies before the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. "Any allegation, any adverse incident like this makes me mad as hell," he says. At the same hearing, acting Inspector General Richard Griffin tells lawmakers that federal prosecutors are working with his office looking into allegations veterans died while waiting for appointments. May 19 -- Three supervisors at the Gainesville, Florida, VA hospital are placed on paid leave after investigators find a list of patients requiring follow-up care kept on paper, not in the VA's computerized scheduling system. May 20 -- The VA's Office of Inspector General says it is investigating 26 agency facilities for allegations of doctored waiting times. May 21 -- Obama says he "will not stand" for misconduct at VA hospitals, but asks for time to allow the investigation to run its course. The same day, Shinseki rescinds Phoenix VA director Sharon Helman's $8,495 bonus. Helman got the bonus in April, even as agency investigators were looking into allegations at the facility. May 22 -- The chairman of the House Veteran Affairs Committee says his group has received information "that will make what has already come out look like kindergarten stuff." He does not elaborate. Document: VA audit report released Researcher Caitlin Stark, Scott Bronstein, Nelli Black, Drew Griffin, Greg Botelho, Eliott C. McLaughlin, Ashley Fantz, Ray Sanchez, Patricia DiCarlo, Dana Ford and Tom Cohen contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/tech/web/amazon-music-streaming/index.html	tech	Amazon adding music streaming to Prime - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 12:39:33 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- OK, at this point, who doesn't have a music streaming service? According to a new report, Amazon will be entering the crowded field this summer, joining such rivals as Google, Microsoft and Apple in trying to find new, profitable ways for digital users to get their tunes. The company plans to make on-demand music streaming available as part of its Prime service by June or July, according to BuzzFeed, which cited five unnamed music-industry sources in its report. Prime will, at least initially, restrict its music offerings to songs and albums that are at least 6 months old, according to the report. Even with a $20 price increase in March that bumped its annual cost to $99, many users already considered Amazon Prime one of the Web's best bargains. For $8.25 per month, members get two-day shipping on many purchases and the ability to borrow Kindle books and watch streaming movies and TV shows for free. Before March, the price of Prime hadn't changed since it debuted nine years ago. Free music streaming would be one more reason for people to sign up and, perhaps more important to Amazon, would keep them in the company's corner of the Internet, where spending money is always just a click away. The move comes as consumer tastes are veering sharply in the direction of streaming as opposed to outright purchases. Digital music sales were down roughly 13% in the first quarter of this month, according to Nielsen. Meanwhile, revenues for subscription streaming services were up 51% in 2013. The market is led by Pandora, the Internet radio service that's the most popular music-streaming platform in the United States, and Spotify, an on-demand service that has a large following in Europe. But Web heavyweights are muscling into their turf as well. Google Play, Microsoft's Xbox Music and Apple's iTunes Radio all offer free streaming or monthly subscription plans. And this week, Apple confirmed plans to buy Beats Electronics and Beats Music. Much of the focus has been on Apple's pickup of the trendy headphones that millions already use with their iPods and iPhones. But Apple also gets a music-streaming service that, although it has only about 500,000 users so far, has been praised by critics for a suggestion engine that combines a complex algorithm with human curation. Amazon did not immediately respond to messages seeing comment for this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/africa/central-african-republic-violence/index.html	world	Protesters, peacekeepers clash in Central African Republic - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 01:14:52 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Thousands of angry protesters poured into the streets of the Central African Republic's capital Friday. The target of their rage? Peacekeepers sent to protect them. Two people were fatally shot, according to the African Union-led peacekeeping force, known as MISCA, when peacekeepers opened fire as their base came under attack in Bangui. Tensions have been high in Bangui for months. But they erupted this week after an attack Wednesday on a church that killed at least 17 people, according to the U.N. refugee agency. Another 27 civilians were reportedly abducted by assailants and remain unaccounted for, the U.N. agency said. It said the church, Notre Dame de Fatima, was housing 9,000 internally displaced people at the time of the attack. They included some 2,050 people who had moved there only a week ago to escape trouble in nearby neighborhoods, the refugee agency said. Some of those killed and injured in the church attack were taken Wednesday evening to Bangui's Community Hospital, where medical personnel battled to save them. In the emergency room, a priest and a 15-year-old boy arrived as patients but did not survive. Other victims were driven straight to the morgue. Two children were among those killed, the refugee agency said. Burning tires, barricades It's not clear who attacked the Church of Notre Dame de Fatima. But the Fatima area borders the unstable "PK5" neighborhood, where the last remaining group of Muslims in the capital live, trapped and under siege from Christian militia groups. According to witnesses, an armed group burst into the church Wednesday afternoon, shooting people in and around the area. Immediately afterward, angry young men responded to the attack by installing barricades around Bangui. Smoke rose as the youths burned tires, while Christian, or anti-balaka, militiaman moved through the city and sporadic gunfire rattled in the streets. A few hours later, on Thursday morning, a mosque in Bangui's La Kouanga area was destroyed in apparent retaliation for the church attack. The attackers ransacked the interior, removing carpets and breaking down the doors. It was one of the last mosques remaining outside the PK5 neighborhood. Local Christians had been protecting the mosque because it was being used by foreign Muslims, from Senegal and elsewhere, but that tolerance came to an abrupt end with the church attack. AU troops tried to remove the barricades Thursday, but tensions were high around the mosque. Hundreds also came out in the streets to protest against the international peacekeeping forces -- French troops and the MISCA forces -- whom they accuse of doing too little to protect the people. The unrest continued Friday. The International Red Cross described the situation in Bangui as "fluid and somewhat chaotic." Its teams on the ground have received reports of injured people in the demonstrations but are still assessing the number of casualties, it said. A town divided People in Bangui are not alone in suffering the effects of brutal sectarian violence. And once again, the peacekeepers sent to protect the people are bearing the brunt of their anger. Until last week, Muslims and Christians co-existed peacefully Bambari, a town some 240 miles northeast of the capital. But all that changed when fighting broke out between Muslim youths and French peacekeepers outside the town. The young Muslim men, afraid that the peacekeepers would disarm the predominantly Muslim militia based in the town -- leaving them unable to fight off the advancing Christian militia -- took up arms. Some Muslim militia members then joined them. As the first shots and explosions rang out, terrified Christians and other non-Muslims took refuge in a dusty area between the town's cathedral and the diocesan headquarters. For three days, thousands took shelter from the clashes. Even as the fighting eased Sunday, most remained there, too scared to leave. Meanwhile, members of the Muslim community stayed in their neighborhoods, leaving the town of some 65,000 effectively segregated. The French peacekeepers have kept a distance outside town. The mostly Muslim militia once known as the Seleka changed its name this month to Republican Forces. Its leaders decided this month to make Bambari their headquarters to stave off the threat from anti-balaka rivals. "We don't want dialogue with the anti-balaka," a spokesman for the rebels in Bambari said. "The only thing that exists between us and the anti-balaka is cartridges," he added, slapping the barrel of his gun to emphasize his point. Spiral of violence The country began its descent into chaos in March 2013 after a coalition of mostly Muslim rebels ousted President Francois Bozize. The former Seleka group has since been forced from power, but Christian and Muslim militias have continued to battle for control. To counter attacks on Christian communities, the vigilante groups known as the anti-balaka, which translates to "anti-machete," fought back. The ethnic violence prompts fears of another genocide like the one in Rwanda 20 years ago. According to the spokesman for U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, the attack on the Church of Notre Dame de Fatima followed violence this week in which suspected anti-balaka elements killed three Muslim youths. Ban urged the transitional government, which took charge this year, to prevent further violence and hold those responsible to account. He also called on the peacekeeping forces to do all they can to support those efforts. The United Nations has promised as many as 10,000 military personnel by September 15, which may help expand peacekeeping operations. Journalist Gemma Parellada reported from Bambari and Bangui, and CNN's Laura Smith-Spark wrote and edited in London. CNN's Aliza Kassim and Nana Karikari-apau contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/08/us/general-motors-fast-facts/index.html	us	General Motors Fast Facts - CNN.com	2014/04/08	Tuesday Apr 8 01:14:11 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Here's a look at what you need to know about General Motors, one of the Big Three U.S. automakers. Facts:  Major GM automobile brands in the United States are Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, and GMC. Domestic and international subsidiaries at one time included Oldsmobile, Pontiac, Hummer, Saturn and Saab. GM is one of the largest vehicle manufacturers and marketers in the world with operations on six continents. Timeline:  September 16, 1908 - General Motors Company is founded under the leadership of William Durant. The new company brings together several car companies, including Buick. Olds Motor Works (Oldsmobile) is bought by GM later in 1908. 1908 - General Motors acquires the Rapid Motor Vehicle Company, a truck company. It later evolves into GMC. 1909 - GM acquires Cadillac Motor and Oakland Motor Car Company (later renamed Pontiac). 1910 - When the company has financial difficulties, Durant is ousted. 1911 - Durant co-founds Chevrolet Motor Company. 1915 - Durant becomes GM's largest shareholder. 1916 - Durant returns as president of GM. 1918 - Chevrolet becomes a division of GM. 1918 - GM joins the war effort during World War I, retooling 90% of the GMC truck production line for military use. More than 8,500 trucks are sold to the U.S. Army for use in the war. 1920 - With GM on the verge of bankruptcy, Durant retires as president. He starts another car company, Durant Motors, but loses his fortune in the 1929 stock market crash. Durant lives until 1947, surviving on a pension from GM. 1923-1956 - Alfred P. Sloan, Jr. is president and later CEO of GM. 1925 - General Motors expands internationally by purchasing Vauxhall Motors, a British company. 1929 - GM takes a majority stake in German car maker Adam Opel AG. During World War II, the German government nationalizes Opel, but GM regains control after the war ends. 1936-1937 - A drawn-out strike at GM plants leads the company to sign its first agreement with the United Auto Workers labor union. 1942-1945 - GM produces vehicles and weapons for use by the U.S. military during World War II. 1954 - General Motors accounts for 54% of the auto market in the United States, up from 12% in 1921. 1965 - Activist Ralph Nader publishes "Unsafe at Any Speed" with a section critical of the Chevrolet Corvair. GM hires detectives to investigate Nader. Later GM's president is forced to publicly apologize and pay Nader $425,000 to settle a lawsuit. 1980 - GM reports a net loss of more than $700 million, its first unprofitable year since 1921. 1980-1990 - GM's share of the U.S. market falls from 45% to 35%. 1984 - GM purchases Electronic Data Systems Corporation, started by H. Ross Perot, for $2.5 billion. 1998 - A 54-day strike by the UAW costs GM approximately $2 billion in profits. 2008 - GM announces that it lost $38.7 billion in 2007, a record loss for the company. November 18-19, 2008 - GM CEO Rick Wagoner and the CEOs of Ford and Chrysler appear before Congress to request $25 billion in government assistance for the automobile industry. December 2008 - GM receives a bailout of $13.4 billion from the U.S. Treasury, through the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). March 30, 2009 - CEO Rick Wagoner announces that he is resigning at the request of the Obama administration. April-May 2009 - General Motors receives another $6 billion in bailouts from TARP. May 29, 2009 - GM stock closes at less than $1 a share for first time since the Great Depression. June 1, 2009 - GM files for bankruptcy. It receives another $30 billion in government funding to assist with restructuring. The after bankruptcy company will be 60.8% owned by the U.S. government, 11.7% by the Canadian government, 17.5% by the UAW union and unsecured bondholders will have a 10% share. July 10, 2009 - General Motors emerges from bankruptcy after 39 days. It is now known as General Motors Company instead of General Motors Corporation. December 1, 2009 - CEO Fritz Henderson resigns after less than a year in the position. Chairman Edward Whitacre, Jr. is named interim CEO. January 25, 2010 - Chairman Edward Whitacre, Jr., is named permanent CEO of General Motors. April 7, 2010 - GM announces that the company lost $3.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009. August 12, 2010 - CEO Ed Whitacre announces that he will be stepping down on September 1, 2010. He will be replaced by Dan Akerson. November 18, 2010 - GM raises $20 billion with its initial public offering at $33 a share. February 24, 2011 - GM announces that the company made $4.7 billion in 2010, its first profit since 2004. January 19, 2012 - GM is officially the top automobile manufacturer in the world. Nine million vehicles sold in 2011 helped to make it the largest automaker in China also. June 22, 2012 - General Motors announces that it is recalling 413,418 Chevrolet Cruze small cars to modify an engine shield that could create a fire hazard. December 9, 2013 - The U.S. Treasury sells its remaining shares of GM stock, closing the book on the 2009 bailout. The United States only recouped about $39 billion of the approximately $50 billion it put into GM. December 10, 2013 - Mary Barra is named the first female CEO of GM. February 14, 2014 - GM recalls 780,000 vehicles due to faulty ignition. February 26, 2014 - GM expands a recall of compact cars to 1.37 million vehicles built between 2003 and 2007, due to possible ignition problems. Thirteen people have died in accidents. March 28, 2014 - The recall of GM vehicles with ignition issues is expanded to 2.6 million vehicles. March 31, 2014 - GM recalls 1.3 million vehicles due to a power steering issue. May 3, 2014 - GM recalls 51, 640 vehicles due to faulty software regulating the fuel gauge. May 15, 2014 - GM announces it is recalling another 3 million vehicles worldwide, and that it will take a $200 million charge for those repairs. The bulk of the latest recall applies to 2.4 million cars with a wiring problem that's been tied to at least 13 accidents, two injuries and no deaths. May 16, 2014 - GM recalls another 8,560 cars for problems with the brakes May 16, 2014 - The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) fines GM $35 million to settle a federal probe into the 10-year delay of its ignition switch recall. This is the maximum fine for a single violation. The money from the fine goes to the U.S. Treasury, not to compensate crash victims. A separate FBI investigation is still underway. May 20, 2014 - GM recalls another 2.4 million U.S. cars and trucks. Spokesman Alan Adler says that no injuries or deaths are associated the recalls. May 21, 2014 - GM recalls another 218,000 vehicles due to overheating and fires. May 22, 2014 - CNN reports a total of 29 separate GM recalls since January 2014 covering 13.8 million U.S. cars and trucks, and 15.8 million vehicles worldwide.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/khan-amazon-hachette-antitrust/index.html	opinion	Opinion: A remedy for Amazon-Hachette fight? - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 01:31:03 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Lina Khan is a policy analyst at the New America Foundation, where she researches and reports on the effects of concentrated economic power. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.   (CNN) -- Amazon only this week acknowledged the storm it raised earlier this month when it made it much harder for consumers to buy books by Hachette, a major French publisher, in order to extract better contract terms. The spat has affected titles by authors ranging from Malcolm Gladwell to J.K. Rowling to J.D. Salinger, whose books Amazon has suddenly made unavailable or more expensive, or which the online retailer says will take many weeks to ship. In its first public statement recognizing the dispute, Amazon notes the standoff is unlikely to end any time soon. This fight is part of a long drawn-out battle between publishers and Amazon, which has used its immense control over the book market (by some estimates it sells up to 50% of print and electronic books in the U.S.) to reshape the industry. Understandably, authors, publishers, and others from the literary world reacted to Amazon's latest play with alarm, cautioning that its brute exercise of power threatens not only the economic underpinnings of their industry, but also the very quality of books and diversity of ideas. Amazon, meanwhile, has tried to defuse the frenzy of attention, explaining that its tactics are just a routine part of how retailers negotiate with suppliers. Many journalists, too, have echoed Amazon's point: Sure, it might seem unfair for Amazon to use its clout this way, but isn't it just how it goes? And if it means Amazon charges us less for books, aren't we better off? They're important questions -- ones that get to the heart of a decades-old law that, if still enforced by government, would likely go some way in taming this fight, and drastically curb Amazon's power over the book industry in general. Called the Robinson-Patman Act of 1936, the law prohibits a retailer from wielding its mere size to bully suppliers for discounts. Congress passed the law as the rise of A&P -- America's first modern mega-chain store -- was shuttering independent businesses. Also known as the "Anti-Price Discrimination Act," the law basically limits the clout won from size, establishing that a retailer can't simply secure better terms because it is bigger and therefore has more bargaining power. (The law also applies to suppliers, prohibiting them from discriminating against small retailers in favor of big ones.) Preventing large chain stores from muscling exclusive discounts from suppliers based on size and not service or cost-justifications, the idea went, would give smaller entities a fair chance at competing. It didn't matter if retailers passed on these savings to consumers or not. It was fair competition that mattered. Through the 1970s, antitrust agencies enforced the act pretty vigorously; in the 1960s alone the government brought 518 Robinson-Patman cases. Enforcement began to drop under President Carter, and the Reagan administration -- which ushered in a fundamental shift in antitrust policy more generally -- scaled back enforcement even further. Successive administrations have largely followed suit: The Clinton administration brought just one case between 1993 and 2000, and neither the Justice Department nor the   Federal Trade Commission has wielded the law since. Federal courts, too, have made it much harder to win a price discrimination suit. But the law is still on the books, and is important to recall because it enshrines a key tenet: That preserving fair competition requires that we curb the bullying power of size. So it is true that retailers and suppliers have a right to negotiate however they please. But the relative bargaining power between the two parties is an important factor when considering what is anti-competitive. Several journalists have compared Amazon's actions to those of Wal-Mart, which famously uses its market dominance to squeeze suppliers -- a strategy it has applied forcibly enough to transform entire industries. What this analogy misses, though, is that even Wal-Mart's license to use its heft this way is relatively new. "If the government still enforced Robinson-Patman, it would go a fair way towards limiting the power of Amazon," said Oren Teicher, CEO of the American Booksellers Association, which represents independent bookstores. He would know: In the 1990s, ABA brought numerous cases against both publishers and chain stores for violating Robinson-Patman. Somewhat perversely, until now, the closest encounter Amazon has had with antitrust authorities was when it successfully prodded them to bring a case against five major publishers and Apple. That fight, too, centered on the price of e-books. In order to wrest control back from Amazon -- which had been pricing digital bestsellers and new titles at a flat $9.99, a fraction of the price of physical copies and sometimes even lower than wholesale -- publishers had adopted a new pricing arrangement, known as the "agency model." After getting Apple on board, publishers extended the model to all booksellers -- including Amazon. After losing the ability to undercut its competitors, its share of the market fell from 90% to around 65%. Amazon responded by filing a complaint with the FTC, and in 2012 the Justice Department sued Apple and the publishers for collusion. As part of their settlement, publishers temporarily lost the right to the agency model, handing back to Amazon the power to slash prices. In the years since, its share of the e-book market has, predictably, risen again, positioning it to leverage that market power against Hachette. It's worth remembering that its tactic -- holding the publisher hostage unless it concedes to better terms -- flouts the principles of anti-price discrimination laws. Accepting Amazon's argument that the nature of its fight with the publisher is innate to how markets work ignores a key piece of American history. Report: Amazon adding music streaming to Prime Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/politics/obama-carney-leaving/index.html	politics	White House press secretary Jay Carney leaving - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 02:05:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Jay Carney is stepping down as White House press secretary, President Barack Obama announced on Friday. Carney said he'd leave in mid June. He is Obama's second press secretary during the more than five years of his presidency. "It's been an amazing experience," the former journalist said from the White House briefing room podium. Obama said that Carney deputy Josh Earnest will step into the role.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/politics/va-next-leader/index.html	politics	What Obama is looking for in next VA chief - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 01:58:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- With Eric Shinseki's resignation Friday, the top post at the Department of Veterans Affairs goes to interim Secretary Sloan Gibson. Gibson was deputy secretary for just three months before his new role, but President Barack Obama already has laid out some priorities for him. During Friday's news conference in which Obama announced Shinseki's resignation, he also addressed some qualities and priorities needed in the next VA secretary. Pressure had been mounting for Shinseki to step down amid a scandal involving long waits for care at VA hospitals. "At this stage, what I want is somebody at the VA who is not spending time outside of solving problems for the veterans," Obama said. The President said he wants someone who will spend "every minute of every day" finding solutions to the problems at the troubled department. Obama ran through a list of problems for the next VA chief to solve: Has the VA reached out to all the veterans who are waiting for care? Have they had appointments scheduled? Is the system being fixed? What new technology is needed? "That's what I want somebody at the VA focused on," he said. "Not how are they getting second-guessed, and speculation about their futures and so forth." Before coming to the VA, Gibson was chief executive at the USO. A West Point graduate, Gibson was an infantry officer in the Army. His grandfather and father served in World War I and World War II, respectively. Gibson also has experience in the private sector, having worked for more than 20 years in banking. Obama said he met with Sloan and "made it clear that reforms should not wait." "They need to proceed immediately," Obama said. In his last acts as secretary, Shinseki on Friday announced the firings of those responsible for misconduct, including senior leaders at the Phoenix VA hospital, where some of the most egregious cases of alleged fraud may have occurred. Gibson's immediate priority, the President said, is to ensure that all veterans who call for appointments get them in a timely manner. "Those are things that don't require rocket science," Obama said. "It requires execution, it requires discipline, it requires focus. Those are things that Sloan (Gibson) has." Long-term solutions will require a review of the VA's budget, and its needs for doctors and technology, he said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/us/georgia-toddler-injured-stun-grenade-drug-raid/index.html	us	SWAT team threatened after grenade injures toddler in drug raid - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 02:12:09 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Members of a Northeast Georgia SWAT team are "devastated" after a drug raid in which a flash-bang grenade landed in a 1-year-old's playpen, seriously injuring the child, the Habersham County sheriff said Friday. The police officers involved have been called baby killers and received threats following the incident, Sheriff Joey Terrell said. "All I can say is pray for the baby, his family and for us," he told CNN. The SWAT team, made up of six or seven officers from the sheriff's department and the Cornelia Police Department, entered the Cornelia residence Wednesday before 3 a.m. A confidential informant hours earlier had purchased methamphetamine at the house, the sheriff says. Because the suspected drug dealer, Wanis Thonetheva, had a previous weapons charge, officers were issued a "no-knock warrant" for the residence, Terrell said. When the SWAT team hit the home's front door with a battering ram, it resisted as if something was up against it, the sheriff said, so one of the officers threw the flash-bang grenade inside the residence. Once inside the house, the SWAT team realized it was a portable playpen blocking the door, and the flash-bang grenade had landed inside where the 19-month-old was sleeping, the sheriff said. A medic on the scene rushed the baby outside to administer first aid, and a nearby ambulance was summoned. Authorities wanted to transport the baby via Life Flight to Atlanta's Grady Memorial Hospital, 75 miles southwest of Cornelia, but weather conditions wouldn't allow it. The baby was driven to the hospital. A Grady official said it's hospital policy not to disclose patients' conditions, but the child's mother, Alecia Phonesavanh, told CNN affiliate WSB that doctors had put her son into an induced coma. She further told the station the family was sleeping at her sister-in-law's house when police arrived, and the grenade seared a hole through the portable playpen after exploding on the child's pillow. "He didn't deserve any of this," Phonesavanh told WSB. "He's in the burn unit. We go up to see him and his whole face is ripped open. He has a big cut on his chest." Thonetheva, 30, was not at the home at the time of the raid, but the toddler's mother and father and their other three children were inside. Thonetheva's mother was also at the house, Terrell said. The baby's family had moved into the Cornelia residence after their Wisconsin home burned, Terrell told CNN affiliate WXIA, and while the family members were aware of drug activity in the home, "they kept the children out of sight in a different room while any of these going-ons were happening." Thonetheva was arrested at another Cornelia residence, along with three other people, shortly after the raid, Terrell said. He is charged with distribution of methamphetamine. Habersham County Chief Assistant District Attorney J. Edward Staples said Thonetheva could also be charged in connection with the baby's injuries. Thonetheva was already out on bond for an October 2013 charge of possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony -- the felony being distribution of methamphetamine, Staples said. Because the Habersham County public defender's office is representing Thonetheva's co-defendant in the October case, they are unable to represent Thonetheva on the charges handed down this week, Staples said. It will take five to seven days to appoint him a new attorney, the prosecutor estimated. Thonetheva made his first appearance before a magistrate Friday, but no bond was set because of the circumstances regarding the public defender. The court wouldn't have accepted a plea from Thonetheva because he has yet to speak to counsel, Staples said, adding that it will be up to a county Superior Court judge to set Thonetheva's bond after he's assigned a lawyer. He is presently being held at the Habersham County Detention Center without bond. His rap sheet shows nine arrests since 2002 and includes charges of drug possession, carrying a concealed weapon, driving while his license was withdrawn and contempt of court. Thonetheva faces no weapons charge in this week's incident, and as for drugs, Terrell said officers found only residue in the home. No officers have been suspended, and Staples said he expects the review of the incident -- being conducted by Mountain Judicial Circuit District Attorney Brian Rickman -- to take about a week. Staples said he recalled no previous use-of-force investigations into the sheriff's department, though a civil suit was previously filed against a drug task force there. Terrell said there have been no prior probes into the Cornelia Police Department. A local pastor came to speak with the officers Thursday, the sheriff said, and his department has been in touch with the child's family. In hindsight, Terrell said, officers would've conducted the raid differently had they known there was a child inside the home, but there was no sign of children during the alleged drug purchase that prompted the raid. "We would obviously would have done things different," Terrell said. "We might have gone in through a side door. ... We would not have used a flash bang." The toddler's family told WSB they have no insurance and have set up a website to collect donations for the baby's treatment.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/health/reproduction-after-cancer/index.html	health	Hope for cancer survivors who want to get pregnant - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 01:58:53 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Christy Wolford describes her first child, Lauren, as a wedding gift. She also says it was her daughter who saved her life. Wolford found a lump in her breast while she was breastfeeding. Had she not been weaning Lauren, she probably wouldn't have noticed that something was unusual with her breast, let alone have had it checked out. Wolford was only 28. "When you're in your 20s, you think you're invincible," she said. At first she thought she might have a clogged milk duct, but she went to the doctor anyway. What followed were mammograms, ultrasounds, biopsies and then the diagnosis: She had breast cancer. Doctors told her other bad news: She had an 80% to 90% chance of being sterile after her treatment. She and her husband, Bubba, really wanted another child. They were hoping for a son to carry on the family name. "That was shocking. ... It was a very hard pill to swallow," Wolford said. Luckily, she found another option: an ongoing clinical trial designed to help preserve a woman's fertility during chemotherapy. The study's results were published Friday at the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting in Chicago. Hope in a trial Since there would be about a month between surgery and chemotherapy, her doctor initially suggested that the couple seek fertility treatment. That way they could set aside embryos to be used later. The Wolfords thought about it, but the treatment's $30,000 price tag was too much. They also struggled with what they felt was a moral dilemma of what they'd do with the embryos they didn't use. Ultimately, they decided that fertility treatments weren't for them. It's a good thing, too: Wolford later learned that she had hormone-negative cancer. The fertility drugs she would have needed for egg harvesting could have made her cancer worse. When Wolford went in for her treatment at MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, she learned about the clinical trial, which is funded largely by the National Institutes of Health. "Honestly, I don't know if my poor husband even had a vote in this. I saw it as my only hope," she said. Trial researchers wanted to know whether the drug goserelin (brand name Zoladex) could preserve the fertility of hormone-negative cancer patients. "It's a drug that suppresses ovarian function or puts the ovaries at rest," said the lead study author, Dr. Halle Moore. Goserelin is normally prescribed to women with advanced hormone-positive breast cancer to put them into menopause and stop estrogen production, which can fuel cancer growth. Studies have shown high rates of return of menstrual function, Moore says, but there have been no conclusive trials looking at ovarian function over the long term. A new approach The goal of the trial was to temporarily halt ovarian function and then assess it two years after treatment. "Basically, if the ovaries are inactive, then they would hopefully be less sensitive to the chemotherapy effects," said Moore, a breast cancer specialist at the Cleveland Clinic. More than 200 women between the ages of 18 and 49 were recruited for the trial. All were given standard chemotherapy, but half added goserelin to their treatments. Wolford was in the latter group. "I put my ovaries into menopause, without the chemotherapy doing it first, with the hope that (the ovaries) would wake up afterwards," she said. She had to get an injection one week before starting chemotherapy and then once every four weeks as long as she was on chemo. "The drug is actually quite painful. It's like a shooting a rice grain into your abdomen," Wolford said. Wolford's chemotherapy lasted six months, finishing in September 2006. Her menstrual cycle returned about four months later. "Obviously, at that point, it doesn't mean that you're ovulating, and at that point, we were trying to figure out what to do next for our family," Wolford said. A life change Two months later, she was laid off from her job. Believing Lauren would probably be their only child, the couple decided to open a preschool in Colorado, "because if we can't have more children, then we'll spend time with other parents' children," Wolford sasaid. In late 2008, they decided to see if they could get pregnant again. When Wolford informed her doctors at MD Anderson, they asked her to come in for more tests, particularly because triple-negative breast cancer has the highest recurrence rate five years after diagnosis. Only 135 women (including Wolford) met the criteria for ovarian function testing at the two-year mark, and among those patients, researchers found that 22% of the women in the chemo-only group had premature ovarian failure, compared with 8% in the group that also got goserelin. "That's a two-thirds reduction," Moore said. Researchers also found that the women in the goserelin group were nearly twice as likely to have a successful pregnancy. Wolford was one of them. She found out she was pregnant in February 2009 and believes she delivered the first baby in the goserelin group. Alexander was born eight months later. 11 myths fertility doctors hear Then came Everett and finally baby Lukas. All told, among the 218 women enrolled in the trial, 22 patients in the goserelin group became pregnant, compared with 12 in the chemotherapy-only group. An important post-cancer issue "Finding a simple and accessible way to protect fertility in young breast cancer patients while not harming cancer outcomes is an important issue," said Dr. Lori Minasian, deputy director of the National Cancer Institute's Division of Cancer Prevention and one of the study's co-authors. "I think this is convincing enough that we can use this standard practice" (for women with hormone-negative breast cancer), Moore said. MD Anderson breast cancer expert Dr. Jennifer Litton, who was not involved in the study, cautions that the study size was small. She says the research does show that it's not harmful to take goserelin to preserve fertility. But she suggests "for patients who are sure they want to have children after chemotherapy, it is still imperative to meet with a reproductive endocrinologist to understand all their options and not just rely on goserelin." More research needed Although the study results are narrowly applicable to hormone-negative breast cancer, the concept may have broader applications in other cancers, said Dr. Clifford Hudis, president of the American Society of Clinical Oncology and a breast cancer expert at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Moore agrees, saying that goserelin may also be applicable with cancers that are treated with similar chemotherapy drugs, like lymphoma, but that more research is needed. Wolford is now almost nine years cancer-free. Her message to other young women in a similar situation: Be strong. It's a hard road fighting cancer, she says, but do your research and consider participating in clinical trials that could help you and other women in the future. "To have the life you always hoped to have -- it's a really huge thing," she said. "It was definitely a painful experience, but the upside was my three sons, and I would do it again in a heartbeat." IVF helps Nigerians overcome infertility stigma  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/africa/nigeria-violence/index.html	world	Nigeria: Militants kill Islamic leader on way to funeral - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 02:25:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Gunmen on Friday shot dead a Nigerian Islamic traditional leader in the northeastern state of Borno as he and other Muslim royals were heading to a funeral, the state government said. Idrissa Timta, emir of the town of Gwoza, was killed as he and two other emirs were traveling to the funeral of an emir in neighboring Gombe state, Borno government representative Bab Ahmed Jidda said. Jidda said the attackers are suspected to be members of the Islamist militant group Boko Haram. The country's defense ministry, which also reported the attack, called the gunmen a "band of terrorists" but did not identify their affiliation. The emir of Uba, Ali Ibn Ismaila Mamza, and the emir of Askira, Abdullahi Ibn Muhammadu Askirama, escaped unhurt, according to Jidda. The gunmen specifically targeted the vehicle holding the three emirs and opened fire, Jidda said. A police escort was shot and injured in the attack, Jidda said. Wali Ibrahim, a member of the Gwoza royalty and a close aide to the slain emir, said the gunmen opened fire from hilltops overlooking the highway. "We came under heavy gunfire from the hills, which forced the convoy to break up in disarray," said Ibrahim, who was in Timta's entourage. "We returned to a military checkpoint not far from the scene of the attack and reported the incident to soldiers there, but to our surprise they made no effort to go after the attackers," Ibrahim said. "By the time we returned to the scene, we met the emir dead inside the vehicle with gunshots," he said. Troops were dispatched to the area after the attack and are trying to find the assailants, the defense ministry said. Boko Haram has repeatedly targeted Nigeria's Islamic emirs, accusing them of selling out by submitting to the authority of the secular government. The emirs are from traditional royal families and often serve as liaisons between their communities and the secular government. Timta's late father had been a chief in Gwoza. In July 2012, Nigeria's third-most powerful emir, the shehu of Borno, Umar Garbai El-Kanemi, survived a suicide bombing as he left a mosque near his palace. The traditional leader survived the attack, but five other people were killed. In August 2012, a suicide bomber tried to kill the emir of Fika in northeastern Yobe state as he left Friday prayers near his palace in the town of Potiskum. That emir survived the blast, though his police guard was killed. Last year, Nigeria's No. 2 Islamic leader, Abo Bayero, the emir of Kano, survived an attack on his convoy. Five people, including three of his bodyguards, died. There have been calls from activists for Nigeria's emirs to play a greater role in curbing Boko Haram, which has waged a campaign of violence -- especially in northeastern Nigeria -- with the aim of imposing a stricter enforcement of Sharia law across Nigeria. Boko Haram, which means "western education is a sin," still is holding more than 200 girls it abducted last month from a school in Chibok, also in Borno state. Boko Haram kills 33 security personnel in Nigeria attacks CNN's Nana Karikari-apau and Jason Hanna contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/us/va-hospitals-audit/index.html	us	Audit paints VA scandal in starkest terms - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 02:42:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The damning internal report that effectively ended Eric Shinseki's tumultuous tenure as Veteran Affairs secretary describes in the starkest terms the systemic failures of a system charged with providing medical care to America's veterans. "Of the 216 site audit reports, many were flagged for further review because of concerns identified by the site audit team about questionable scheduling practices, signaling a systemic lack of integrity within some Veterans Health Administration facilities," the audit summary says. Shinseki went to the White House on Friday morning to present Obama with the audit findings. The first phase of the audit looked at scheduling and access management practices from May 12 to 16 at Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers and large community-based outpatient clinics serving at least 10,000 veterans, the audit says. That's 138 VA medical centers encompassing 216 sites -- a total of 258 separate points of access to medical care and more than 2,100 scheduling staff. An additional audit will cover all remaining VA facilities -- suggesting that the scandal could grow. "Suspected willful misconduct will be reported promptly to the Office of Inspector General," the audit said. "Where the OIG chooses not to immediately investigate, management will launch either a formal fact finding or administrative investigation. Where misconduct is confirmed, appropriate personnel actions will be pursued promptly." Obama on Friday announced the resignation of his only Veterans Affairs secretary after meeting with Shinseki to discuss the growing scandal involving long waits for care at VA hospitals. Calls for Shinseki's resignation increased in recent days from the across the political spectrum -- Republicans and Democrats as well as veterans' advocacy groups. The problems gained prominence after CNN began reporting problems at VA facilities in November. The audit said it was "a rapidly deployed, systemwide assessment" of scheduling and "not intended as a formal investigation of individual staff or managers." The audit teams were not able to interview all employees, and "time did not allow assessment of intent or potential culpability." The next phase will include smaller clinic sites and anonymous Web surveys. Still, the initial findings were deemed "a strong basis for immediate action," audit said. The findings included:  Efforts to meet the needs of veterans and clinicians led to an "overly complicated scheduling process that resulted in high potential to create confusion among scheduling clerks and front-line supervisors."  Meeting a 14-day wait-time performance target for new appointments was "simply not attainable given the ongoing challenge of finding sufficient provider slots to accommodate a growing demand for services. Imposing this expectation on the field before ascertaining required resources ... represent an organizational leadership failure."  Of scheduling staff surveyed, 13% said they received instruction to enter in the "Desired Date" field a date different from the one requested. The survey did not determine whether this was done "through lack of understanding or mal-intent unless it was clearly apparent."  In some cases, "pressures were placed on schedulers to utilize inappropriate practices in order to make Waiting Times appear more favorable. Such practices are sufficiently pervasive to require VA re-examine its entire Performance Management system and, in particular, whether current measures and targets for access are realistic or sufficient." The VA's audit of all remaining sites is scheduled to be completed in early June. Part of the review will be to determine how performance goals were conveyed "across the chain of command such that some front-line, middle, and senior managers felt compelled to manipulate VA scheduling processes," the audit said. It added, "The overarching environment and culture which allowed this state of practice to take root must be confronted head-on if VA is to evolve to be more capable of adjusting systems, leadership, and resources to meet the needs of Veterans and families. It must also be confronted in order to regain the trust of the Veterans VA serves." The audit said the VA will "ensure that managers and staff engaging in undesired practices are held accountable." "We don't have time for distractions," Obama said in announcing Shinseki's resignation. "We need to fix the problem."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/sport/football/asda-england-kkk-flag/index.html	iSport	Store defends flag likened to KKK outfit - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 02:44:49 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- A British supermarket chain has defended the sale of a wearable England flag in its stores that has been compared to a Ku Klux Klan uniform. The white and red flag of St. George in stock at ASDA outlets features a pointed hood which the store says will allow English fans to show support their national team during the World Cup while keeping dry during the notoriously unpredictable British summertime. But some fans have taken to social media sites to register their disapproval of the similarities between the 3 ($5) flags and the hooded outfits worn by the KKK. Twitter user @beyondlimits posted "Dear ASDA, Your wearable klu klux klan style England flag is not acceptable." Meanwhile, @iAmNaemaan said "I don't think ASDA thought the whole 'wearable flag' thing through properly." Pictures of the offending item have since been tweeted and retweeted hundreds of times on the micro-blogging site. Asda has had to defend itself against claims this wearable England flag looks like a KKK hood. Make your own mind up pic.twitter.com/qrw5kj9brW A subsidiary of the American retail giant Walmart, ADSA issued a statement to CNN Friday addressing their surprise at the controversy and stressing that their hooded flag product is also available in other country's national colors. "We know there's chatter on twitter about our wearable World Cup flags, but it's simply a flag with a hood -- nothing more, nothing less," the statement read. "We opted for a hood on our wearable England and Brazilian flags as you never know what the British weather will bring. "We want customers to get behind the team without getting wet." The flag is just one of numerous World Cup themed items ASDA has been stocking in the run up to the tournament which kicks-off in Brazil on June 12. Other British supermarkets such as Tesco and Sainsbury's offer similar World Cup items which extend into products like beers, food, barbecues and televisions. Last year the British Retail Consortium estimated that the British economy could lose 2 billion ($3.5 billion) if England failed to qualify for the World Cup. Businesses are hence keen to cash in on the event while it lasts. However, it wasn't just Twitter users suggesting ASDA might have struck the wrong note with the wearable England flag. Asda are selling wearable England flags, they look dodgy to say the least... pic.twitter.com/cGBsSdQyP9 "In theory it was a good idea because it's England and it rains," Simon Chadwick, professor of Sport Business Strategy and Marketing at Coventry University, told CNN. "However, I think it does show a lack of good judgment and discretion on the part of people working for ASDA." "This is particularly the case in this country as there's a debate right now about the St George's Cross, about the flag, about immigration and the rise of UKIP," referring to the success of the Euro-skeptic political party in recent local and European Union elections. "I think this showed a lack of good judgment on the part of the management," he said. Read: '31-0 - On the Road with Football's Outsiders' Read: FIFA's World Cup 2014 bus slogans  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/showbiz/million-ways-to-die-review-ew/index.html	entertainment	Review: 'A Million Ways to Die in the West' is hilarious - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 02:57:19 EDT 2014	(EW.com ) -- Seth MacFarlane doesn't make it easy to like him. His smug, smarty-pants shtick seems to be built on the foundation of him being a bit of a pr**k. And the "Family Guy" and "Ted" creator's one-and-done gig hosting the Oscars a couple of years backwhere he whipped up a tizzy of faux outrage with his now-infamous ''We Saw Your Boobs'' numberdidn't exactly help matters. Love him or hate him, though (or simply love to hate him), his naughty-boy sagebrush send-up, "A Million Ways to Die in the West," is actually pretty hilarious. From his sideline obsession with Rat Pack swizzle-stick showmanship to his undeniably clever piggybacking on the small-screen legacy of "The Simpsons" and "South Park," MacFarlane is clearly a guy who isn't afraid to borrow from his betters. And his new film is such an unapologetic homage to 1974's "Blazing Saddles" that Mel Brooks probably deserves to get a cut of the box-office receipts. Still, MacFarlane manages to make the film his own, goosing Brooks' original formula with hard-R raunchiness and post-modern mischief. While MacFarlane kept himself off-screen in "Ted" (he merely provided the profane voice of Mark Wahlberg's fuzzy pal), here he puts himself front and center as Albert Stark--a cowardly and inept sheep farmer in the backwater town of Old Stump, Arizona, circa 1882. At the outset of the film, Albert is cowering at ten paces, face-to-face with a grisly gunslinger, nervously trying to weasel his way out of a duel. His stammering excuses to back out quickly become a sort of manic stand-up routine that encapsulates the theme of the movie, riffing on all the ways that the Old West, contrary to Hollywood legend, is actually a horrible place: the people are stupid yokels, the height of medicine is treating wounds with the pecking beaks of blue jays, and if the Indians don't kill you, the rattlesnakes on the way to the nearest outhouse will. He's like Louis CK in chaps. Ashamed by Albert's lily-livered lack of courage, his schoolmarm girlfriend Louise (Amanda Seyfried) dumps him for Foy, the dandy proprietor of the local mustache shop, played with literal whisker-twirling glee by Neil Patrick Harris. Explaining why he's more fit to woo her than Albert is, he says, ''I can give her wrapped candies.'' Albert is encouraged to try and win Louise back by his sexually frustrated, dim-bulb best friend (Giovanni Ribisi), whose prostitute girlfriend (Sarah Silverman with a bottomless grab bag of blow-job one-liners and bodily fluid gags) withholds sex while doing unprintable acts in her day job. But Albert is no match for the deep pockets, bad puns, and luxurious waxed handlebar of Foy. Meanwhile, the area's most wanted desperado, Clinch Leatherwood (Liam Neeson) is on the run from the law, who while hiding out, sends his sharp-shooting beauty of a wife, Anna, (Charlize Theron) into town to lay low. Which is fine by her. She hates the scoundrel and only married him because she was nine at the time and afraid of becoming a spinster. Needless to say, Anna and the harmless, good-hearted Albert bond over how dreadful and absurd range life is. Eventually she hatches a scheme for them to pose as an item to make Louise jealous while she teaches him how to shoot a gun and grow a pair. MacFarlane, who wrote the script with Alec Sulkin and Wellesley Wild, keeps the gags flying like hot lead out of a Colt .45. And for every three that don't land, one or two hit the bullseye. There are probably a few too many lazy fart and diarrhea jokes for some, but 14-year-old boys will love it. And while the self-satisfied MacFarlane may give himself a little too much credit and face time as a leading man (I couldn't help thinking he looks like Peter Brady, and his knack for laughing at his own gags is slightly grating), Theron displays a stunning set of razor-sharp comedic chops that she's rarely been given the chance to show off. It suits her as well as the bustle gown she wears to the local hoedown. ''Why are the Indians so mad?'' she asks at one point. ''We're basically splitting the country 50/50 with them!'' I don't know if "A Million Ways to Die in the West" will turn any of the MacFarlane haters into fans. But for those of us who have remained on the fence until now, his raunchy, rat-a-tat parody is proof that beneath all of the bratty immaturity lays the head and heart of an outrageous quick-draw satirist. Grade: B  See the original story at EW.com  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/showbiz/brad-pitt-attacked/index.html	entertainment	Reporter charged with hitting Brad Pitt - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 03:13:04 EDT 2014	Hollywood, California (CNN) -- A journalist accused of striking Brad Pitt at the "Maleficent" premiere has been charged with four misdemeanors, Los Angeles City Attorney spokesman Rob Wilcox said Friday. Ukrainian TV reporter Vitalii Sediuk was charged with one count of battery, one count of assault and two violations of the Los Angeles municipal code, Wilcox said. The code violations relate to Sediuk's stage crashing at the 2013 Grammy Awards, Wilcox said. Pitt was signing autographs Wednesday at the area of the red carpet where fans are allowed to gather when Sediuk allegedly jumped the rope and hit the actor in his face, according to Los Angeles Police Sgt. Leonard Calderon. Pitt, who was there with partner Angelina Jolie, star of "Maleficent," continued unfazed on the carpet to give interviews. Sediuk, who was due to make a first appearance in court Friday afternoon, was transferred from the LAPD's Hollywood precinct jail to the county's central jail, operated by the sheriff. While his bond was initially set at $20,000 after his arrest, the judge could raise that since additional charges have emerged connected to the Grammys incident. Sediuk is infamous for red carpet pranks around the world, including kissing Will Smith in Moscow and hugging Leonardo DiCaprio and Bradley Cooper around the knees at separate events earlier this year. Sediuk, 25, was fired from his reporter job with Ukrainian television channel 1+1 after he jumped under actress America Ferrera's dress on a Cannes red carpet on May 17, a spokesman for the company told CNN. The TV network was not involved in his stunts, a spokesman said. He was already on three years of "formal diversion" -- a form of probation -- in Los Angeles for crashing the Grammy stage during Adele's acceptance last year, according to the Los Angeles city attorney's spokesman. The lawyer who represented Seduik in the Grammy case was surprised when CNN called him Thursday about the latest arrest. Attorney: Client 'a real nice guy' Sediuk is "a real nice guy," Anthony Willoughby said. "I'm really shocked that he would be accused of hitting somebody." "This was an unfortunate and inappropriate incident that is being investigated by the LAPD," a spokesman for Disney Studio, the film's distributor, said of the incident involving Pitt. Police did not say whether Pitt was punched or slapped, just that the attacker struck him in the face. The attacker was quickly tackled by bodyguards, handcuffed by police and hauled away to jail. He now is barred from going near Pitt. Los Angeles police issued an emergency protective order effective for five days starting Thursday, but the actor's lawyer could ask a judge to extend it. Sediuk's celebrity pranks are usually silly, attention-getting stunts that do not involve violence. Grammys stage-crasher reveals his entry plan He eluded security to get a second-row seat inside the Staples Center at the 2013 Grammy Awards, despite having no credentials. Sediuk jumped onto the stage when Jennifer Lopez announced Adele as the winner. "I love you, Adele," he is heard saying as the singer approached. He was arrested offstage and later prosecuted on two misdemeanor charges. He eventually accepted a plea deal for probation with the provision that he not go back to the Staples Center and stay out of trouble for three years. "I think that the court overly protects the entertainment industry," Willoughby told CNN. A not-welcome presence at events Award show and premiere producers apparently black-listed Sediuk after last year's Grammy incident. He was denied reporter credentials to the Oscars, but he showed up anyway wearing a feathered swan outfit similar to the one worn by Bjrk on the 2001 Oscars red carpet. He was ordered to leave the venue after telling police it was a protest. Will Smith on the red carpet slap heard 'round the world' The celebrity stunts apparently began when Sediuk handed Madonna an odd and unwelcomed gift of a hydrangea during a news conference at the Venice Film Festival in September 2011. "I absolutely loathe hydrangeas," she said as she stuffed them under a table. Don't buy Madonna hydrangeas Sediuk's infamy grew in May 2012 on a Moscow red carpet where Will Smith was attending a movie premiere. Video shows Sediuk attempting to kiss the actor on the mouth. "Come on, what the hell is your problem?" Smith said as he pushed the reporter away and lightly slapped him. "He's lucky I ain't sucker punched him." Sediuk crawled onto a red carpet and under Ferraro's dress at the Cannes Film Festival in France earlier this month. Video shows him being dragged away. It was this incident that cost him his job at the Ukrainian channel, the company said. Sediuk's actions "were neither suggested nor coordinated by the network," 1+1 TV spokesman Serhiy Popov told CNN on Thursday. "Vitalii was acting on his own behalf and not on the behalf of the channel." The network is not helping Sediuk deal with his legal problems, Popov said. CNN's Victoria Butenko,Topher Gauk-Roger, David Daniel, Talia Kayali and Dottie Evans contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/living/mommy-wars-photos-parents/index.html	living	Connecticut moms try to end the 'mommy wars' through photos - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 03:57:38 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- I can clearly remember that first moment I felt like a foot soldier in the "mommy wars." Six years ago, in between news assignments, I raced to catch my then-2-year-old daughter's gymnastics class. It was Parents' Day, which meant all of us moms and a few dads gathered to "ooh" and "ahh" at what our future Olympians had learned so far. But then class was over and I had an interview I had to dash off to, something not many toddlers would easily accept. My daughter cried her eyes out and clung to my body. As I had to gently pry her arms off me and make my exit, I noticed all the moms staring at me -- or rather glaring. Their eyes said it all. "How could you leave your daughter?" "I would never do that to my child." READ: Why are so we quick to cry "bad mother"? As the tears began to flow on my way back to the office, I felt guilty, but also angry. "Why all the judgment?" I thought to myself, but I knew I was guilty of some of that same judgment from time to time. It's not something to be proud of -- those moments, for instance, when you see what a mom is feeding her child and think, "I would never give that to my daughters." Mommy. Wars. Just writing those words makes me cringe, but they're real to some extent, and they stem from, I believe, deep insecurities that all moms feel, especially when we compare ourselves to moms around us. Can't we all just get along? READ: Longing for the carefree parenting of yesterday? That's the thinking behind a fabulous photo spread aptly titled "End the Mommy Wars" on the site Connecticut Working Moms, which first went viral last year, and continues to pop up. Women hold signs with messages such as "Let's love more & judge less." Hear hear to that! "The message really resonates with people because ... nobody likes to feel judged," said Michelle Noehren, 32, the site's founder and manager. "They're tired of this negativity." The site made waves in 2012 with a photo spread celebrating women and their post-baby bodies, which got national attention on television. As a follow-up, the site launched its Campaign for Judgment-Free Motherhood, with photos highlighting issues sometimes used to "pit moms against each other," said Noehren, mom to a 3-year-old daughter in Glastonbury, Connecticut. "I work outside the home," says one woman via a sign. Next to her, another woman declares, "I'm a stay-at-home mom." READ: Memo to imperfect moms In another, one mom touts she practices "peaceful parenting," while another mom admits to sometimes yelling at her child. "We wanted to take those (topics) and say, 'Hey, we're all people. We're all equals, and no one is better than someone else and we don't know why other people make the decisions that they do, so what's the point in judging that?" Noehren said. Judgment-free motherhood is a wonderful concept, but I can hear the skeptics now saying it's about as likely to happen as losing weight by eating daily hot fudge sundaes. "It's a journey for everyone. It's a journey for me. I still find myself judging other mothers," said Noehren, "but I think the difference is that now when I realize I'm judging somebody, I realize it and I'm like, 'Ooh, I don't like the thought I'm having. I'm going to just not follow that thought and go down a negative mental spiral and instead just remember that every mom is doing the best that (she) can.' " READ: Are millennial moms more traditional? Noehren has written about the practical steps moms can take to stop the reflexive judging that we're all so used to in today's society. "The only thing that we can control is our own mind," she said. "We can't control what other people are doing in their life so we can choose to let go of those negative thoughts when we have them and that's really, I think, the key to becoming a less judgmental person." Another way? Listening to other women's stories and realizing we all have our challenges -- whether we stay at home or work outside the home, breastfeed or formula feed, buy fast food or organic, choose home school or public school or private schools. After that disturbing incident at my daughter's gymnastics class six years ago, I was really helped by an anthology of essays from women from different perspectives, Leslie Morgan Steiner's highly regarded "Mommy Wars". But I have a lot more work to do to truly live judgment-free. I'm inspired to try to do a better job. Are you? What do you think is the best way to end the 'mommy wars'? Share your thoughts in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/tech/social-media/apparently-this-matters-weed-fairy/index.html	tech	Apparently This Matters: Weed Fairy leaves free pot - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 04:23:24 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Each week in "Apparently This Matters," CNN's Jarrett Bellini applies his warped sensibilities to trending topics in social media and random items of interest on the Web.  (CNN) -- I never actually caught a glimpse of the Tooth Fairy when I was young, but she was definitely real and in cahoots with my mom. This, due to the fact that I never woke up to find a Nintendo. It seems, however, that the Tooth Fairy had plenty of small bills. Which, to be fair, seems the appropriate amount of prize money for literally doing nothing, save for having things fall from your head. And at least she was reliable. Teeth came out. Money came in. Since then, I've only allowed my adult self to believe in the mythical Receding Hairline Fairy, who comes in during the night and inspects your shower drain for treasure. So far, however, despite plenty of offerings, she's failed to leave any cash under my pillow. Not even a Nintendo. Even so, I still believe. But now there's another fairy out there who is both very real and very reliable, and, for many adults, very welcome. She's the Weed Fairy. Basically, her job is to swoop into town and deliver free marijuana to people on the street. And she recently shared her generosity with Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood. It was there over Memorial Day weekend that she posted around 50 fliers on street poles that read: "These are tough times. Take this WEED and keep your spirits high." Taped to each flier was a tiny little nugget of weed. The postings were signed with the Twitter handle @danksyappleweed, which, for those of you paying attention, is a clever play on the name Johnny Appleseed. Though, their missions in life appear to be rather different. Johnny Appleseed is a beloved American treasure who, at the turn of the 18th century, introduced apple trees to many parts of the United States. Danksy Appleweed, on the other hand, helps inspire overstressed businessmen to go home, eat a bag of Cheetos and watch Pink Floyd's Live at Pompeii. Which is equally as important. Danksy's real name is Yeni Sleidi, and, according to her website, she is a 23-year-old resident of Brooklyn's Park Slope neighborhood. But she decided to spread her love on a recent visit to Washington state, where marijuana is legal. Sleidi told Q13 Fox that, "It's definitely easy to get it here in Seattle, but not everyone has the money." And she's done it in the past. Several months ago she said she provided free weed to people in New York, where the feedback was positive. Which is why, now, she's much more open about who she is and what she does. The @danksyappleweed handle even links to her personal Twitter account, @sleidi_yeni. Of course, some people are concerned that the weed might fall into the wrong hands, like people under the age of 21. Or, say, your parents, who like to try things now that they're older. "Diane, I found this on the street today. I believe it's legal marijuana." "Oh! How does it work?" "Maybe it's a suppository. Get me some olive oil." But Sleidi says that she's careful about where her little wings take her, explaining, "I try to leave it in areas where I know the majority of the people are of age." And the police don't seem overly concerned either, telling Q13 Fox that it's not a top priority. Sadly, though, for people in Seattle hoping to find some free heady nuggets, Danksy tweeted on Friday that her short visit to the Emerald City had come to an end, posting her message with a photo taken at what appears to be 420 E. Pike Street. 420, of course, is a term the kids use for marijuana, and a bit of modern slang that your parents will promptly mangle. "OK, Diane, it's time. Let's 420 each other." "Yay! Here's the olive oil." Follow @JarrettBellini on Twitter.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/health/medicare-sex-change-surgeries/index.html	health	Medicare could pay for sex-change surgeries under federal decision - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:06:48 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The decision on whether Medicare pays for sex-change operations is now in the hands of regional administrators, thanks to a decision Friday by a federal board that overturned a national policy of not covering such surgeries. The ruling by the Departmental Appeals Board of the Department of Health and Human Services gives authority to 15 regional contractors who administer the Medicare program to decide whether sex-change surgeries will be covered in their territories. "The national policy barring Medicare from covering gender transition surgery has been invalidated," said Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services spokesman Aaron Albright in an e-mail to CNN. "As with all such determinations, CMS will carry out this independent board's ruling through Medicare Administrative Contractors, who manage Medicare claims payment systems. These contractors may cover this care case-by-case or under a local coverage determination based on clinical evidence to determine medical appropriateness," added Albright, whose agency administers Medicare and Medicaid. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders (GLAD), and the National Center for Lesbian Rights (NCLR) responded with a joint statement praising the move: "This decision removes a threshold barrier to coverage for medical care for transgender people under Medicare. It is consistent with the consensus of the medical and scientific community that access to gender transition-related care is medically necessary for many people with gender dysphoria," the statement said. "The removal of the exclusion of coverage for surgical care for Medicare recipients means that individuals will not automatically have claims of coverage for gender transition-related surgeries denied. They should either get coverage or, at a minimum, receive an individualized review of the medical need for the specific procedure they seek, just like anyone seeking coverage for any other medical treatment." The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force issued a statement that concluded, "The dominoes are falling rapidly."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/politics/mental-health-guns-arizona/index.html	politics	Keeping weapons from mentally ill proves elusive - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 04:53:44 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Gun rights and gun control advocates largely agree there should be restrictions on mentally ill people obtaining firearms. The case of Myron Fletcher illustrates how difficult it is to put that into practice. In 2003, Fletcher lost his rights to possess firearms under Arizona law after he underwent mental health treatment. In 2012, he successfully petitioned a Pima County judge to have his rights restored. In March, police in Tucson arrested him and charged him with murder of his girlfriend, whose decomposing body was found in his home. She'd been shot, records show. The National Rifle Association and other gun rights groups support plans to ensure that certain mental health records, including involuntary commitment to a mental institution, are more easily searched during background checks for gun purchases. But the NRA, along with mental health advocates, say tightening restrictions on the mentally ill could make some people reluctant to seek mental health assistance for fear of losing their rights. House approves more money for background checks on gun buyers The recent rampage in California, in which 22-year-old Elliot Rodger stabbed and shot to death six students near the University of California at Santa Barbara, prompted some gun-control advocates to urge more be done to keep guns out of the hands of the mentally ill. The killer was getting mental health treatment, and his family sought the intervention of police after they became concerned that he seemed likely to hurt himself or others. While Rodger was getting treatment, he said in a written document he sent to his psychiatrist and others, that he refused to take his prescription antipsychotic medication. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-California, said after the incident, "We must ask ourselves if an individual whose family called police with concerns about mental health, who is receiving therapy and who has had several run-ins with police should be allowed to own multiple firearms and hundreds of rounds of ammunition. When anyone, no matter their mental health or history, can so easily obtain any gun they want and as many as they want  we must recognize there is a problem." Opinion: Fix mental health care or expect more shootings But there's widespread opposition to new gun laws in Congress, which killed proposals by the Obama administration following the 2012 Newtown, Connecticut, school massacre. Instead, there are proposals to set new standards for mental health treatment to provide families more power to involuntarily commit a family member to mental health treatment when they refuse it themselves. Such laws could help keep guns away from mentally ill people. Federal and state laws curtail gun rights for people who are institutionalized for mental health treatment. Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Pennsylvania, who is sponsoring a bill to allow families emergency commitment power, said the California killings show the need for a federal standard. "What makes these painful episodes so confounding is the reality that so many tragedies involving a person with a mental illness are entirely preventable," he said at a hearing. "For example, in 34 states Elliott Rodger's family would have been able to ask a court to order an emergency psychiatric evaluation but in California the law says they cannot. The families know when a loved one is in a mental health crisis and their condition is gravely deteriorating." In the case of Fletcher, Pima County Superior Court Judge K.C. Stanford ruled to restore his rights after he provided letters from a doctor that indicated he was mentally fit, according to people familiar with the matter. CNN wasn't able to review the court records because mental health records aren't public. Stanford didn't respond to a request for comment. A court spokeswoman said the judge was prohibited from commenting on mental health matters and in cases where a defendant is subject to current charges. David Hardy, Fletcher's attorney, said he couldn't comment on details of the case because of attorney-client privilege. Asked if Fletcher's gun-rights restoration led to the killing, Hardy said the 2012 court ruling was "unrelated" to the murder allegation. Of the judge's order to restore Fletcher's guns, Hardy said: "You make your best guess; sometimes you're right and sometimes you're wrong." He added that he supports tightening restrictions on guns for the mentally ill. "If there's a section of the law that needs overhauling, it's mental health." Competing mental health bills set up showdown  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/politics/republicans-obamacare-issue/index.html	politics	Wait -- Obamacare isn't an issue? - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 04:50:06 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- The Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare, might not be the Republican Party's key to electoral victory as once thought. Patterns are emerging that Republicans and like-minded groups are broadening their scope and not homing in on a singular anti-Obamacare message. In March, Reince Priebus, head of the Republican National Committee, told CNN's Candy Crowley that Obamacare is "complete poison" and advised Republican candidates they "have to hit your main target which is Obamacare" in order to win. But in the political world, things change fast, and March is the equivalent to a millennium ago. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, who is in a reelection bid against surprisingly strong Democrat Alison Lundergan Grimes, recently said that while he wants to repeal the law, Kentucky's version, Kynect, is "unconnected" to the fate of Obamacare. Kynect is relatively popular in Kentucky, providing insurance coverage to more than 413,000 people, but was created under the Affordable Care Act and is funded mostly through federal funds. McConnell's shift is subtle but meaningful. During his primary campaign against a candidate who billed himself as more conservative than McConnell, the Senate leader took a hard-line stance on getting rid of -- or repealing -- Obamacare, which has been the Republican mantra until recently. He's not the only one. Americans for Prosperity, which is expected to spend north of $100 million this election cycle backing issues that Republicans favor, has also shifted its strategy. In the lead up to the launch of Obamacare last fall, during its disastrous rollout and in the months after, AFP had a laser-like focus on the issue, spending tens of millions of dollars in states and districts where Democrats are vulnerable. 2014 primaries: What's at stake "We do want to make sure that Obamacare is the Number One issue in the country," AFP President Tim Phillips said in February. At that time, the law had been in effect for less than two months, it was lagging behind its target enrollment pace and the effects of a bad roll out still permeated. Phillips said Obamacare is going to be the top issue because the "tidal wave affects are going to continue with Obamacare." Furthermore, a March 15 statement on the organization's website described itself as the "nation's foremost advocate for health care freedom." But now, two months later, AFP has broadened its scope. Its website now features a campaign against the Export-Import Bank, which is not related to Obamacare. Also, an ad airing in Louisiana, where Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu is locked in a tight reelection race, attacks her for "wasteful government spending." Missing from the ad -- the word "Obamacare." In addition, its partner group, AFP Foundation, launched an $850,000 ad buy in Wisconsin earlier this week that focuses on taxes and also doesn't mention the O-word. AFP doesn't deny it. "We're responding to the changing environment," AFP spokesman Levi Russell said. "That initial shock (of Obamacare) has changed a little bit, but it hasn't gone away." Republicans are now retooling their message, after having emerged from primary battles of who's farther to the right they must now try to appeal to a more diverse audience that has become more accepting of the federal health care program approved in 2010 without Republican support. Polling suggests that public attitudes are shifting. The latest CNN poll from early May found that 38% of people wanted to either replace the law or get rid of it. The results are similar to a CBS poll which found 35% of respondents said the law needs to be repealed, which is a far better billing than the 43% who felt the same way in November. Elizabeth Wilner with the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan polling group, wrote that Republicans are starting to use the word "fix" in their campaigning, instead of "repeal." "Republicans have been gearing up for months ... to run against Obamacare, then it started to work," Michael Czin, spokesman for the Democratic National Committee said, noting that 8 million people have signed up. Since Republicans gained control of the House in 2011, they voted more than 50 times on a full or partial repeal of the health care law, that's more than one vote per month, but the pace has fallen off dramatically in recent months. 2014 key races to watch That matters because in an election year, congressional business is connected to electoral politics as lawmakers want to either promote their agenda or tarnish the other party. But Russell predicts the issue will not go away, especially as the elections approach and new premium rates are announced this fall. "Our role is going to be to remind folks how we got here in the first place," he said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/coleman-violence-against-women/index.html	opinion	Opinion: How terrible is it to be born a girl? - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:45:58 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Isobel Coleman is the author of "Paradise Beneath Her Feet" and a senior fellow of U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- How terrible is it to be born a girl in the world today? The almost daily headlines about another cruel act of violence and discrimination against women -- from the kidnapping of nearly 300 school girls in Nigeria last month, to the latest gruesome stoning of a woman in Pakistan -- provide plenty of reasons to be pessimistic about women's equality and safety in today's world. The recent case of "misogynist extremism" in California, where a young man killed six people in "retribution" for all the girls who had rejected him, underscores the fact that all societies suffer from violence against women. Indeed, the World Health Organization estimates that 35% of women worldwide experience intimate-partner violence or non-partner sexual violence in their lifetime. A new World Bank report estimates that in some countries, the economic toll of violence against women exceeds a staggering 3% of GDP. Also shocking in the 21st century is that the leading cause of death worldwide for girls ages 15 to 19 is complication related to pregnancy and childbirth, in many cases because girls are married and bearing children before their young bodies are ready. High rates of child marriage in some countries also limit the educational opportunities and economic independence of girls. Add in a persistent preference for sons in South, East and Central Asia that has resulted in millions of "missing girls," and the picture for girls today seems pretty grim. But these challenges, as daunting as they are, should not obscure the important gains that women and girls have made in recent decades -- gains that point to a much brighter future. First, the global gender gap in education has been shrinking: Between 1999 and 2009, the number of girls out of school dropped from nearly 61 million to 35 million, and equal numbers of girls and boys now complete primary school in Latin America and East Asia. In fact, around the world, women are beginning to outnumber men at the university level -- in some cases by a wide margin. Women's political participation worldwide also continues to grow. As of July 2013, 35 countries, including nine in Africa, had national parliaments with at least 30% female representatives and several countries now include quotas to ensure women's political participation. Examples of women rising to the top of their fields -- just think of Hillary Clinton, Janet Yellen, Angela Merkel, Sheryl Sandberg and others -- and on their own terms, are increasingly more common. The dire statistics we hear today about violence against women have a silver lining -- that violence is being counted -- and quantified -- which is a huge leap forward from centuries of silence and acceptance of the oppression of women. Honor crimes and sexual violence have long gone unrecorded because such behavior is tolerated, ignored, or conveniently covered up in mostly rural communities. Survivors often remain silent for fear their attackers will take revenge if they report the crime. But national and international media coverage and popular outrage are beginning to shift the dynamic. The proliferation of mobile phones and use of social media mean that violence and discrimination against women are increasingly reported. In the aftermath of the 2012 gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old female student in New Delhi, India, journalists called me asking why are we seeing such an uptick in sexual violence against women now -- is it somehow related to globalization? My response is that we simply have no data to conclude that the incidence of sexual violence in India is actually increasing -- reported incidents may be on the rise, but that could be because women, supported by male family members, are finally breaking the code of silence to denounce and prosecute their attackers. The outrage in the New Delhi case forced the Indian government to strengthen its sexual assault laws -- including making rape in some cases punishable by life in prison or the death penalty and increasing the minimum sentence for gang rape to 20 years. As depressing and disturbing as the headlines can be, news of violence, hatred, and discrimination against women is beginning to catalyze powerful change. So too is the growing body of evidence that disempowering women poses an enormous economic cost on society. There will inevitably be backlash against that change -- backlash that will take the form of deranged extremists from California to Nigeria to Pakistan -- but the momentum of positive change for women and girls in the world today is undeniable. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/sport/washington-redskins-twitter/index.html	iSport	Washington Redskins fumble on Twitter - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:38:51 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The Washington Redskins, stinging from a letter by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and dozens of fellow Democrats calling on the league to force the team to change its racist name, apparently fumbled a desperate Twitter appeal to fans. "Tweet @SenatorReid to show your #RedskinsPride and tell him what the team means to you," the maligned team wrote to its 305,000 Twitter followers on Thursday. But be careful what you ask for, especially on Twitter. "This team has ZERO self-awareness.lol," one person tweeted. "Lifelong 'Skins fan and I strongly believe it is time to change the name," wrote another. "How do you not see what a bad idea this is," said another tweet. "Please don't do this to yourself. DON'T," another person wrote. Faiz Shakir, Reid's digital director, said the majority of responses favored a name change. "In the five to 10 minutes following it, we were pleasantly surprised by the overwhelming outpouring of opposition to the team," he said. "It was 50 to one at one point." Redskins spokesman Tony Wyllie said the claim reminded him of the famously incorrect "Dewey defeats Truman" banner headline. "They declared victory within the hour and as the night went on, more and more momentum swung our way," he said. "That's the good thing about our country. People can express themselves and have a healthy dialogue." In a letter to the NFL last week, the senators stepped up pressure on the league to force the Washington Redskins to change their name by invoking the heated racial controversy triggered by basketball's Donald Sterling. "I would hope that the team does reflect on why there was so much organic opposition to the name," Shakir said Friday. "I don't know if they're living in bunker mentality over there and don't realize that this name has caused so much anger. But if they are in that bunker mentality, hopefully (Thursday's Twitter response) causes them to climb out of that and see the fact that there is a lot of deep-seeded opposition and anger to the name." Responding to the senators' letter, Redskins President Bruce Allen invited Reid to a game to "witness first-hand that the Washington Redskins are a positive, unifying force for our community in a city and region that is divided on so many levels." Allen said the term Redskins originated as a Native American expression of solidarity, and that the team logo was designed by Native Americans. Joel Barkin, a spokesman for Oneida Indian Nation of central New York, said the team's Twitter appeal demonstrated how much the Redskins underestimate the passions surrounding the issue. "This is a complete disregard for those that are calling for a change," he said. "It's a fundamental misreading of the issue at large." Last week's letter, signed by 50 Democratic senators and released by Reid, urged pro football's commissioner, Roger Goodell, to take action over concerns that continued use of the Redskins brand is offensive to Native Americans. They asked Goodell to follow the lead of NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, who took tough measures against Sterling after the longtime owner of the league's Los Angeles Clippers was recorded making comments offensive to African-Americans. "Today, we urge you and the National Football League to send the same clear message as the NBA did: that racism and bigotry have no place in professional sports," the letter said. Responding to the Senate letter, the NFL said last week it has "long demonstrated a commitment to progressive leadership" on diversity. "The intent of the team's name has always been to present a strong, positive and respectful image. The name is not used by the team or the NFL in any other context, though we respect those that view it differently," the league statement said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/americas/argentina-model-lawsuit-google-yahoo/index.html	world	Argentina model fights search engines over photos on porn sites - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 05:51:42 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Attorneys for Google and Yahoo appeared in a Buenos Aires court to respond to accusations that searches on their websites link the name and photos of a popular Argentina model to sexually-oriented websites. Mara Beln Rodrguez is suing the search engines, alleging they linked her name with terms like "sex" and "pornography." Rodrguez told CNN her pictures would be wrongly used mainly in two ways: An unauthorized picture could be used to lure Internet users to an X-rated site, taking advantage of her popularity in Argentina, or within adult websites that contain pornographic images of other people. Rodrguez, 30, originally sued Google and Yahoo in 2006. After an eight-year legal battle, the case has worked its way up to Argentina's Supreme Court. In 2010, the model was awarded a combined judgment against both search engines of 120,000 Argentine pesos, almost $15,000. The search engines appealed and a higher court later lowered the amount to about $6,200. Earlier this week, Rodrguez told CNN the use of her image by sexually-oriented websites has deeply damaged her reputation. "They have ruined my life and now say that what I'm asking for is censorship. It suits them, but not me. Truthfully for me, having to explain every day that I'm not a prostitute is a daily complication, as simple as that," Rodrguez said. At the court hearing Thursday, attorneys for Google and Yahoo suggested search engines are neutral platforms that don't create or regulate content on the Internet, and therefore, are not responsible for how the model's image is used by third parties. Alberto Bueres, an attorney representing Yahoo, said what the plaintiff is asking goes beyond the search engines' capabilities. "It is technically and economically impossible to before-the-fact monitor millions of pages of content available on the Internet because of their volume and because they constantly change. To argue against this is to favor before-the-fact censorship and to ignore the economic realities," Bueres said. Mara Baudino, Google's legal affairs manager for Latin America, suggested the entire lawsuit could have been averted had the plaintiff contacted the search engines directly to complain about specific websites that used her image illegally. That information, Baudino said, would've allowed Google to act by either blocking the pages or unlinking results related to modeling pictures belonging to Rodrguez. "In this particular case, there was a consistent and prolonged refusal to identify the content in question," Baudino said. "It's necessary to identify the content by providing URLs in every single case for the simple reason that if they're not identified, neither Google nor anybody is able to determine what we're talking about." But Ral Castex, an attorney representing Rodrguez, said search engines have more power to block content than they were willing to admit in court. "Search engines can find, with their own, diligently designed techniques, websites linked to child pornography they normally block," Castex said. He questioned why the search engines can conform with censorship rules in China but cannot protect his client's reputation. Google attorneys said they index web pages based on more than 200 criteria. Google's transparency report posted online says so far this year the search engine has received more than 100 million requests to block pages that violate copyright laws or are deemed illegal or harmful in other ways. Rodrguez , who's also an actress and a TV host, is a married mother of two children ages 1 and 3. She's a native of Crdoba, Argentina. Rodrguez is often mistaken by the media for another model from Argentina by the same name who works in Italy. Rodrguez says the case goes beyond her reputation and honor. She describes her legal battle as a modern David and Goliath fight. "Let me be clear, first of all, that I want to clear my image," Rodrguez said. "Second, I want a precedent to be set so that this doesn't happen again. I'm in favor of freedom of expression, but not the kind of freedom of expression that is built on lies. I'm an ant fighting against a giant monster." A ruling by the high court is expected in several weeks.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/sport/tennis/gulbis-tennis-female-kids/index.html	iSport	Gulbis: Female tennis stars "need to think about kids" - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 06:23:44 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Ernest Gulbis is no stranger to a controversial comment. The Latvian tennis star once described the press conferences of Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray as boring. Then there was the time he said the fact that marijuana was legal in the Netherlands was one of the reasons he liked playing in Rotterdam so much (although he quickly added that he didn't smoke himself, he just liked that way of thinking). Now, Gulbis has caused a stir thanks to his views on the sport's female players, telling reporters at the French Open in Paris he hopes his younger sisters don't become tennis professionals because women need to think about having children. "Hopefully they're not going to pursue a professional tennis career," Gulbis said. "A woman needs to enjoy life a little bit more. Needs to think about family, needs to think about kids." He added that female tennis players can't think about having kids until they are in their late 20s, and "that's tough for a woman." Unsurprisingly, Gulbis' comments caused a stir on social media sites Friday with many decrying the remarks as sexist. But Maria Sharapova, who defeated Paula Ormaechea 6-0, 6-0 Friday to move into the fourth round of the ladies draw, played down any controversy. "I don't think we can take everything serious when he speaks," Sharapova laughingly said in her post match press conference. "I think he's great entertainment and we love to listen to what he has to say." "I think the sport brings so many opportunities to women. I mean, it's brought me so many things into my life and my career. I don't regret any step that I have taken." Gulbis was speaking after defeating Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-2, 7-5. He now advances to play Roger Federer in the fourth round after the Swiss overcame Dmitry Tursunov 7-5 6-7 (9/7) 6-2 6-4. Gulbis, who has risen to a career high world ranking of 17 thanks to a fine run of form this year, has never made the fourth round of a major before but admitted he was keen to make up for lost time. "Until the last two years I would be consistent for say three months, then I got sick or went to Latvia and took stupid ten days off," he said. "Now I'm jumping on the last train. I'm 25 so this is my last opportunity to be really successful." Gulbis and Federer were joined in the fourth round later in the day by world No 2 Novak Djokovic who battled past Croatia's Marin Cillic 6-3 6-2 6-7 (7-2) 6-4. The Serb, who dropped a set against Cilic for only the third time in nine meetings, will now face home-favorite Jo Wilfred Tsonga for a place in the quarter finals. "Physically I had to work very hard, because he was very aggressive, and I could expect that," Djokovic said of his opponent after the match. "(But) In important moments I held my nerves and, you know, I'm very happy that I went through." Elsewhere in the men's draw, John Isner overcame Tommy Robredo of Spain 7-6 (15-13) 7-6 (7-3) 6-7 (7-5) 7-5. The big-serving American will now meet Thomas Berdych in round four after the Czech beat Spain's Roberto Bautista Agut. Radwanska stunned The women's draw suffered yet another shock Friday as third-seed Agnieszka Radwanska lost to unseeded Croat Ajla Tomljanovic. The Pole went down 6-4 6-4 in the first game of the day on Philippe Chatrier and follows top seeds Serena Williams and Li Na in making an unexpected an early exit at Roland Garros. "After seeing the two first seeds go out, (I) feel like I can do this too. I grew up with these girls that are beating them... obviously, you respect everyone, but you don't fear anyone," Tomljanovic told reporters. The highest ranking seed left in the ladies competition is now Simona Halep (4) of Romania who doesn't play her third round match against Maria-Teresa Torro-Flor until Saturday. Elsewhere on Friday, Angelique Kerber of Germany beat Slovakia's Daniela Hantuchova 7-5, 6-3 and will now face 18th seed Eugenie Bouchard of Canada for a place in the quarters. Meanwhile, Samantha Stosur overcame Dominika Cibulkova 6-4, 6-4 to set up a fourth round tie with Maria Sharapova.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/us/va-bonuses-qa/index.html	us	Were bonuses tied to VA wait times? Here's what we know - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 06:20:02 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's one of the more disturbing revelations to arise from an investigation into fatal delays in care at Veterans Affairs medical centers: Employee bonuses appear to be one factor behind the manipulation of patient wait times in at least one hospital. Two reports released this week -- one by the VA's inspector general and another by the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs -- indicate in some cases wait times were manipulated to meet employee performance goals needed for bonuses. The news has raised questions about just how widespread the practice was and who received the financial incentives. Answers from the VA have been harder to come by. Here's a look at what we know: What did the reports reveal? At the Phoenix VA patient wait times were directly tied to VA employees' bonuses and raises. By manipulating doctor's appointments for the veterans, the wait time to see a doctor appeared to be shorter, a factor considered in VA employee bonuses and raises, according to a VA inspector general report said. The VA secretary's audit of a number of medical centers that concluded "some front-line, middle, and senior managers felt compelled to manipulate" the scheduling process to meet performance goals established by the agency. Who benefited?  By all indications, from the reports and congressional testimony, the practice involved high-level managers in at least the Phoenix VA medical network. Neither report identified managers by name or position. How much money? There is no easy answer to this. Performance incentives are typically tied to a number of factors, and the VA has not detailed how much of a role patient wait times may have played. Who knew about it? There is no hard and fast answer. The first public revelation that salary increases and bonuses may have been a factor came with the release of the agency's inspector general report. The House Committee on Veterans Affairs also asked the question during a combative hearing this week, where Rep. Dan Benishek, R-Michigan, inquired whether there was a financial motivation to manipulate appointment schedules at the Phoenix VA. "That is a discussion the (VA inspector general) is having," Dr. Thomas Lynch, the VA's assistant deputy undersecretary for clinical operations, said. How widespread is the problem? It appears the VA, itself, is still trying to answer that question, citing the ongoing inspector general's investigation. A final report is due in August. The issue of patient wait times is not an overall performance factor ordered by the VA, Lynch recently told the House Committee on Veterans Affairs. The factors tied to bonuses and raises are decided by each VA network, Lynch said. But the VA also appeared to indicate in its audit that its mandate to improve wait times may have played a role. As a result of the audit, the VA suspended financial incentives -- bonuses and salary increases -- for all Veterans Health Administration executives for the 2014 fiscal year.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/opinion/gergen-how-to-fix-va/index.html	opinion	Opinion: What it takes to fix the VA - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 06:42:58 EDT 2014	Editor's note: David Gergen is a senior political analyst for CNN and has been an adviser to four presidents. A graduate of Harvard Law School, he is a professor of public service and director of the Center for Public Leadership at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. Follow him on Twitter at @david_gergen. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- General Eric Shinseki, one of the finest soldiers of his generation, performed a final act of service for his country when he fell on his sword. It was a sad moment but, as a life-long patriot, he knew he had to resign as secretary of Veterans Affairs. As good an officer as he was, he could no longer expect to lead his huge department, a bureaucracy second in size only to Defense and representing nearly 15% of the entire federal civilian work force. Evidence has been piling up that he and his top lieutenants knew shockingly little about misdeeds within the department, despite years of negative reports. And he was rapidly losing the confidence of Congress, the public and most importantly, veterans. Now, attention can rightly expand from investigations of the past -- though they must go on -- to how to fix the future. A White House that has hardly covered itself with glory needs to get on top of the problem and stay aggressively there. The place to start is to appoint a world-class leader to run the place and recruit a squad of young, talented veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan as a personal support team. Unfortunately, the best person in the country to run the VA is the least available: Robert Gates. No one knows more or as has been more effective in running large, massive public institutions than Gates. He was not only superb at running the CIA but was then successful in running Texas A&M (the seventh-largest university in the country) and went on to serve with great distinction as secretary of defense, winding down two wars for Presidents Bush and Obama. Borger: Obama defeated by bureaucracy? But Gates is now happy in retirement in Washington state, thousands of miles away from Washington, D.C., and enjoying running a different sort of organization as president of the Boy Scouts of America. If you have seen him on a book tour, you may have noticed the neck brace he had to wear for a few months. He jokes that one morning over breakfast he told his wife he was thinking of returning to D.C. and the next thing he knew, he woke up in the hospital with a broken neck. The point is that the VA desperately needs a leader who can overhaul an agency notoriously resistant to change, someone who knows a lot about military culture. After Gates, the next best choice is likely to be his last deputy at DOD, Ashton Carter. (Disclosure: Carter is a friend and esteemed colleague from the Kennedy School.) Carter won very high marks among civilians and military as deputy secretary, the person who "runs the building." The White House may also find a retired four-star general who would be a good fit; retired Gen. John Allen, whom the President tapped to help out with negotiations in the Middle East, quickly comes to mind. But the roster of people who would be strong choices is actually quite limited, so the search must be relentlessly tough-minded. Even so, this is not a one-person job. A new secretary will need reinforcements. There are none better than some of the veterans who have come back from Iraq and Afghanistan, peeled off their uniforms, and volunteered to continue their service as civilians -- rightful heirs of the World War II generation. A smart White House would recruit some of the best among them and put them to work fixing the VA in some imaginative way -- possibly in full-time stints, possibly in consulting teams. An obvious candidate as leader: Lt. Cmdr. Eric Greitens, a Rhodes Scholar, Navy SEAL, veteran of several tours, best-selling author, founder of the veterans group, The Mission Continues (I serve on its board). In recent years, I have had the privilege of teaching a number of veterans who have pursued graduate degrees at Harvard. They are extraordinarily talented and ready to help. Start with Maura Sullivan, for example: Northwestern undergrad, Marine officer in Iraq, graduate of the Harvard Business School and Kennedy School, now rising in leadership ranks at PepsiCo and serving on a federal veterans advisory board. Top talent is ready and willing. Why not ask them for help? Iraq and Afghanistan veterans have had too little voice in the VA. It's time to call on the best to serve their country again. Follow @CNNOpinion on Twitter. Join us at Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/15/politics/midterms-101/index.html	politics	2014 midterms: What's at stake - CNN.com	2014/04/15	Tuesday Apr 15 02:31:10 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Their approval rating is horrendous. They rarely get along or get anything done. So here's your chance to do something about it. With the entire House of Representatives and more than a third of the Senate up for election in November, there's a lot at stake in these midterms. Here's what on the line: Control of the Senate: That's the big story of the year. Republicans have their best chance of winning back the majority since they lost it in the 2006 elections. Democrats hold a 55-45 seat majority (53 Democrats and two independents who caucus with them) and could lose control of the chamber if they drop six seats. That matters because Republicans would then likely control the House and the Senate. Government would be truly divided with President Barack Obama, a Democrat, still in the White House. Republicans would likely pass more legislation through Congress and the President would be forced to either allow GOP priorities to go through or stop them in their tracks with a veto. Democrats face a difficult task of maintaining their Senate majority. Of the 36 Senate races this year (a third of the Senate is up for election every two years), Democrats hold 21 seats. In other words, they are forced to play major defense. The Cook Political Report says Democrats have an extremely slim chance of keeping their seats in South Dakota and West Virginia, where the current Democratic senator in both is retiring and the states' electorates are likely too conservative to elect a new Democrat. So the Democrats' defensive playbook comes down to seven races in red or purple states that they could lose: Louisiana, Arkansas, North Carolina, Alaska, Michigan and Montana and Iowa. In addition, Republicans are hopeful they have a chance to knock off Democratic incumbents in Colorado and New Hampshire. In other words, they have multiple paths to retaking the Senate. More on the key Senate races "Democratic control of the Senate is at considerable risk, with the party at no better than even money to retain control in November," wrote Stuart Rothenberg, editor and publisher of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report, one of the top political handicappers. But it's not all roses for the GOP. It has a few seats to defend, too. And one of those is that of the party's leader, Mitch McConnell in Kentucky. Democrats recruited a young candidate who is running a solid campaign. She is a legitimate threat to McConnell. And in Georgia, the retiring Saxby Chambliss has left the door open for Michelle Nunn, a Democrat with a family history in Georgia politics, to beat a field of Republicans who are pushing each other to the right. Little drama in the House: Republicans currently have a strong advantage in the House: They control 234 seats compared to 201 for Democrats. What team wouldn't love a 33-point advantage on game day? What that means is that Democrats must pick up 17 seats to reclaim the majority they lost in the 2010 midterms. But that's unlikely because the party that controls the White House usually loses seats in a president's sixth year. But only 17 seats out of 435 are rated tossups, according to a CNN analysis. That's less than 5%. CNN estimates that another 33 could change hands, and some surely will, but the risk is a bit lower. House races to watch Nathan Gonzales, deputy editor of the Rothenberg Political Report, said that is pretty standard. "That's close to normal for a mid-decade, non-wave election year," he said, adding that more districts become competitive after redistricting at the start of every decade. In the last census, Republicans dominated the redistricting game because they controlled the entities, mostly state legislatures, that are in charge of drawing new districts. As Democratic voters tend to be clustered in urban areas and Republican voters in the suburbs and out in the country, Republicans control more districts. There are a lot more rural districts than urban. In 2012, House Democrats won 1.17 million more votes, but the GOP won 33 more seats, according to an analysis by the Cook Political Report. The role of Obamacare: Republicans think they have a winning issue -- Obamacare. The deadline to enroll in the Affordable Care Act for the year has come and gone, but Republicans think voter anger over the law is here to stay and they've made it a campaign priority to highlight it as the President struggles with dismal approval ratings. Republicans point to the only test case they have: Florida's 13th Congressional District where David Jolly beat Democrat Alex Sink in a special election in March. The deep-pocketed third-party group Americans for Prosperity is all in, playing in dozens of races using the sole weapon of Obamacare. "We do want to make sure that Obamacare is the No. 1 issue in the country," Tim Phillips, president of AFP, said in a recent interview. "This data pretty clearly shows that even though attitudes regarding the ACA are 'baked in' with voters (68% feel strongly one way or another about the issue), the intensity is clearly on the negative side, as GOP voters clearly dislike the new law more than Democrats are in love with it," said GOP pollster Neil Newhouse, a co-founder of Public Opinion Strategies. Republicans hit a nerve with Obamacare  Democrats looking for something to rally around: Democrats are working to do everything possible to motivate their base. A March CBS News poll found that while 70% of Republicans are excited to vote only 58% of Democrats are. The enthusiasm gap doesn't bode well for Democrats who are well aware that Democratic voters are less likely to vote in non-presidential election years. Even the head of the committee tasked with electing Democrats to the House admits it. Rep. Steve Israel says Democratic candidates have a tough time in midterms. "Well, look, there's a tough climate, no question about it," he said on CNN's "State of the Union" in April. While Republicans have vitriol over Obamacare to motivate their base, Democrats think they've found their go-to: equal pay and minimum wage. Democrats seize on equal pay as midterm issue Those are two issues that speak to voters personal pocketbooks, especially those of women and people of color -- groups that are more likely to work a minimum wage job and get paid less than a white male. Oh, and two groups that vote less often in midterms. "It's extremely potent," Democratic pollster Celinda Lake said recently. "It's the No. 1 issue that gets single women out to vote, but it also unites men and women." Pollster Stan Greenberg wrote in a recent memo that 72% of 2012 voters say they are "almost certain" to vote in 2014, but only 66% of unmarried women say that. "Among voters likely to vote in 2014, the generic ballot is tied. Among those who voted in 2012 but who are not likely to vote in 2014, Democrats hold a 16-point margin. This is a big deal," Greenberg said. For Democrats, intensity is paramount Republican regrouping: The Republican Party learned from Obama's impressive ground game during the 2008 and 2012 elections. This will be the first opportunity for the GOP, led by the Republican National Committee, to use new data gathering techniques, technology and on-the-ground campaign volunteer recruitment to expand their base and persuade voters. RNC Chair Reince Priebus praised those efforts during the Florida-13 special election. Why the RNC built a year-round ground game The RNC says it has recruited 14,000 precinct captains in targeted congressional districts and Senate and gubernatorial races around the country. That operation in 2014 will lay the groundwork for the 2016 presidential election, spokeswoman Kirsten Kukowski said. The role of independents: In the CBS News poll cited above, independents are least excited about voting. Only 47% said they were compared to 70% of Republicans and 58% of Democrats. That's, in part, why this election is going to be "more about each side getting out their base," Gonzales said. Gonzales said that independents voting in midterm elections tend to decide who to vote for based on their feelings about the direction of the country and their approval of the President rather than on specific issues. He said they shouldn't be completely discounted, however, in close races, where they could play a deciding role. Putting their money where their mouth is? In case you haven't been paying attention to politics, there's a battle waging within the Republican Party. Conservative groups unhappy with establishment members are working to beat some incumbents who they think aren't pure enough. The Senate Conservatives Fund (SCF), FreedomWorks, Club for Growth and various tea party groups are playing in Republican primaries. And some of those primaries include those for the seats of McConnell, Sen. Thad Cochran of Mississippi and Sen. Pat Roberts of Kansas. They are involved in a series of House races, too, including Rep. Mike Simpson of Idaho. But these groups might be more bark than bite running against the well-funded Republican establishment. In a telling case, Texas Sen. John Cornyn easily won his primary against tea party backed challenger Rep. Steve Stockman in March, but he spent $2.6 million in the final weeks to do it. A Boehner bypass? House conservatives have their own midterm message  The conservative groups haven't been able to raise that kind of money so far. For instance, in the 12 candidates it backs, the Senate Conservative Fund has spent $2.6 million on races and given another $2.1 million directly to candidates. The role of the moneyed men: Since the Supreme Court's campaign finance decision Citizen's United in 2010, the role of individual investors in the political sphere has grown. During the 2012 election, casino magnate Sheldon Adelson spent at least $98 million, according to an investigation by ProPublica. The wealthy entrepreneurs, Charles and David Koch, spent $130 million in 2012 through their organization Americans for Prosperity, which works to defeat Democrats. They also donated money directly to candidates and political action committees as well. It'll be interesting to see how the high rollers play in the midterms. With no one candidate at the top of the ticket, will they be willing to spread their money around to impact multiple races or wait for 2016 to put all of their dollars in one tank? The Koch-backed Americans for Prosperity has already spent well above $30 million and plans to spend a lot more. A wealthy former hedge fund manager, Tom Steyer, hopes to play big as well. Focusing on climate change, he pledged to spend up to $50 million of his own money and hopes to raise another $50 million. Opening act for 2016: Let's face it, the midterms haven't even happened yet but the presidential race is well under way. Potential Republican hopefuls are already spending large amounts of time in early primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. Is 2016 election starting earlier than 2012 did? And on the Democratic side, Hillary Clinton is asked "the question" seemingly every hour. While the midterms will determine the next two years in Washington and the President's ability to govern, it won't predict what could happen in the presidential race two years later. That's because the electorate is much different. It's bigger. It's more diverse. But it could have an indirect impact on 2016 as Republicans will have an opportunity to establish a track record for the public to judge, especially if they win back the Senate. Control of the states: Thirty-six states are electing governors this year, including California, Texas, Florida, Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania. While the political parties want control of the state houses to implement policy priorities, whether that's the Affordable Care Act for the Democrats or cutting taxes for Republicans, the larger picture is always in view. As multiple Republican governors up for election this year are considering a presidential run, including Wisconsin's Scott Walker and Ohio's John Kasich, Democrats think that if they lose, it will make it more difficult for them to run for higher office in 2016. Republicans hope their ground game to try and elect Republican governors pays off for 2016 by creating an infrastructure to help elect a Republican to the White House. Gubernatorial races to watch Seven key times and dates in the seven months leading up to the midterms CNN's Paul Steinhauser, Peter Hamby and John King contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/showbiz/netflix-amazon-streaming-movies-june/index.html	entertainment	New movies on Netflix and Amazon for June - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 07:32:15 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Netflix and Amazon are adding new titles to their streaming options in June. Whether your tastes run to classic horror like "Carrie" or television series like "Downton Abbey," there is plenty to choose from. Here is the schedule of releases. Here's what you should look for on Netflix: June 1:  "Apocalypse Now Redux" (2001) "Barbershop" (2002) "Carrie" (1976) "Clear and Present Danger" (1994) "Cold Mountain" (2003) "El Dorado" (1966) "Ever After: A Cinderella Story" (1998) "Funny Lady" (1975) "Harriet the Spy" (1996) "I.Q." (1994) "Left Behind: The Movie: (2000) "Reign Over Me" (2007) "Rudy" (1993) "Swept Away" (2002) "The Adventures of Milo and Otis" (1989) "The Craft" (1996) "The Returned" (2013) "The Stepford Wives" (2004) "The Triplets of Belleville" (2003) "Trailer Park Boys Live in F**kin' Dublin" (2014) "Trailer Park Boys: Say Goodnight to the Bad Guys" (2010) June 3: "Devil's Knot (2013) "The Glades: Season 4" June 4: "Romeo & Juliet" (2013) June 6: "Luther: Season 3" "Orange is the New Black: Season 2" "Girl Most Likely" (2012) June 7: "The Art of the Steal" (2013) June 10: "Bonnie & Clyde" (2013) "One Direction: Clevver's Ultimate Fan Guide" (2013) "Pretty Little Liars: Season 4" June 13:  "World War Z" (2013) June 14: "Toddlers & Tiaras: Season 7" June 15:  "Return to Nim's Island" (2013) "The Pirate Fairy" (2014) June 16: "Jane Eyre" (2011) June 17: "Heartland: Season 5" "Real Husbands of Hollywood: Season 2" "Wilfred: Season 3" June 18: "Oldboy" (2013) June 20: "Comedy Bang! Bang!: Season 2" June 22: "Copper: Season 2" June 23: "Tarzan" (1999) "Tarzan 2: (2005) June 24: "Elaine Stritch: Shoot Me" (2013) "Gambit" (2012) "Wolf Creek 2" (2013) "XXX: State of the Union" (2005) June 27: "Turbo FAST: Season 1" June 29: "Lawless" (2012) June 30 "My Girl" (1991) "My Girl 2" (1994) "Sophie's Choice" (1982) And here's what you should look for on Amazon: June 1:  "Naruto Seasons 1-7" June 3: "Stories We Tell" "The Glades: Season 4" June 6: "Girl Most Likely" (2012) June 13:  "Doc of the Dead" "Wait Till Next Year: Season 1" "World War Z" (2013) June 15: "American Experience: JFK, Season 1" "The Mind of a Chef: Season 2" "John Leguizamo: Tales from a Ghetto Klown" "Dangerous Edge: A Life of Graham Greene" "The Powerbroker: Whitney Young's Fight for Civil Rights" "NOVA Making Stuff: Season 2" "Secrets of London: Season 1" "Antiques Roadshow: Season 16" "Genealogy Roadshow: Season 1" June 16:  "Key & Peele: Season 3" June 17: "Adam Devine's House Party: Season 1" June 22: "Wendell & Vinnie" June 23: "Downton Abbey: Season 4" June 25: "Creative Galaxy: Season 1" June 26: "Kung Fu Panda"  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/living/catholic-teachers-morality/index.html	living	'Thou shalt not': Catholic teachers challenge morality clause - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 07:45:19 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- If you want to teach at a Catholic school in the Archdiocese of Cincinnati, regardless of your religion, you must be willing to sign a detailed morality clause that critics say focuses on "pelvic issues." The revised contracts forbid teachers from -- among other things -- living together or having sex outside of marriage, using in-vitro fertilization, a gay "lifestyle," or publicly supporting any of those things. The system's 2,200 current teachers must sign the agreement to stay on the job. "It is an embarrassment and a scandal, and will drive even more Catholics away from an institution so out of touch with its times," said Robert Hague, a high school English teacher for 50 years. He's leaving his job rather than sign because he's opposed to "the language, the intent, and the tone of this contract," he says. The revised morality clause goes beyond more general standard language requiring teachers -- Catholic or not -- to adhere to Catholic doctrine. First, the 2014-15 contract adds the title "ministers" to all teachers -- from geography to gym class -- a move seen as a legal maneuver to try to protect the archdiocese from discrimination lawsuits. It stems from a 2012 U.S. Supreme Court decision in the case of Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v. EEOC, in which the justices cite a "ministerial exemption" that gives religious institutions greater latitude when hiring and firing employees. 'We're all being asked to act out of fear' But what especially rankles critics of the revised contract is the list of "thou shalt nots." Teachers must sign a promise not to engage in or publicly support several areas of conduct including unmarried cohabitation or sex, using a surrogate mother or in-vitro fertilization, a homosexual lifestyle, and improper use of social media. "It sounds like a litany of the un-saints," said Roger Rosen, a French and Latin teacher at the same high school where he was valedictorian. Cincinnati Catholic Schools Superintendent Dr. Jim Rigg said in an op-ed for the Cincinnati Enquirer in March that there are no new requirements in the revised contract, and it only explains, "in abundantly clear language, some of the principles of the Catholic Church." Rosen signed the contract, even though he doesn't support it. "I'm a coward," he told CNN. After 43 years of teaching, Rosen says he wants to keep collecting a paycheck for him and his wife. "Isn't that terrible?" But he said the terms of the morality clause are creating an unsettling atmosphere among colleagues. "Jesus always acted out of love. Never out of fear, and we're all being asked to act out of fear because the lawyers have taken over," Rosen added. Molly Shumate, a first-grade teacher, is directly touched by one of the newly highlighted restrictions because she has a son who's gay. She's ending her career at her childhood school rather than agree to new language she says could restrict her from publicly supporting her son. "In my heart, I know I need to go. I need to find another avenue because I am going to support my son," Shumate told CNN. "If in five or 10 years he finds a partner and he wants to be with that person, I'm going to be in the front row with the biggest bouquet." She said she's since been told that she could be reprimanded, but not fired, for showing public support for a gay lifestyle. "However, I don't think I should be reprimanded, either," Shumate added. As spiritual head of the Cincinnati Archdiocese, Archbishop Dennis Schnurr has had to deal with controversial firings or dismissals, including a federal lawsuit last year. Computer teacher Christa Dias, who was single, used in-vitro fertilization to become pregnant and was then fired. She sued the archdiocese for discrimination and a jury awarded her more than $170,000. "You can't sign an agreement (that) you won't get pregnant," Brian Butler, Dias' attorney, told CNN. Also last year, a dean of students at a Cincinnati Catholic high school was let go after supporting same-sex marriage on his private blog. And a female gym teacher at a high school in the Columbus, Ohio, diocese was fired after publishing the name of her partner in an obituary column announcing her mother's death. She sued and the diocese settled. Superintendent: No new expectations There have also been lawsuits in other states, but that's not stopping many religious school systems from developing what some call a morality clause "on steroids." Catholic schools in Cleveland, as well as in Oakland, California, and Honolulu, Hawaii, are working on integrating the clause in their teacher contracts. Some question the inherent disparities: How would anyone know if a male teacher impregnated a unmarried woman without public disclosure versus a female teacher, whose pregnancy would be obvious? Shumate said the contract might have the most repercussions when it comes to children who are still discovering their sexuality. "If (teachers) show any support to a homosexual child in any way... will they be reprimanded? Will they be fired? That's the scary part," she said. In an open letter to Superintendent Rigg, Hague questioned whether the archdiocese "seems to desire a kind of 'cleansing' of some of its own most dedicated and loyal members." "This is a deep human issue and to dismiss it... by calling (homosexuality) a lifestyle seems to be a huge misunderstanding on the cognitive level... It's a dismissal of other human beings," Hague wrote. Rosen, his voice shaking, echoed his frustration with the archdiocese. "You're taking your most loyal defenders of Catholic teaching and throwing them under the bus. Have you no shame?" Schnurr declined CNN's request for an interview. His representative told CNN the archbishop stands by Rigg's comments in the Enquirer op-ed. In it, Rigg states the "teacher-minister" contract does not add new expectations nor does it "stipulate that relationships of love for LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender) relatives should be severed." "Our culture is changing quickly in this area, and many of our school employees, including me, have family members who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender," the superintendent wrote. "We cannot, nor should we, peek through the windows of our employee's homes to see whether they are living a moral lifestyle," Rigg writes, adding that the contract is not an excuse for "some type of witch hunt." But Hague worries it will be just that, and that school principals and parish priests may "engage in surveillance or be party to tattle-tales of the sort needed to catch people in these 'thou shaltnots (sic).'" Standing outside a classroom holding a framed prayer, Rosen is equally worried. "How do I look at a gay student in the eye and tell him he's just as important as everybody else but I'm not allowed to support him as much as I would like? How does that make him feel?" he asked. Critics: What would the Pope think of this? Aside from stirring emotions, opponents of the revised contract wonder whether it calls into question the inclusive approach of Pope Francis, who last year said of gay Catholic priests, "Who am I to judge?" "What's happening here is you are taking confessional matters and trying to make them public matters that people have to sign a document about," CNN Faith and Religion Contributor Fr. John Beck said. "And I think Pope Francis is really on another track here." A dozen billboards asking "Would Pope Francis sign the new Catholic teacher contract?" have sprung up around Cincinnati, paid for by a group called Voice of the Faithful. "If you have a legal contract that says you cannot publicly support something... that can be interpreted differently by different principals, by different administrations... it leaves people vulnerable to what they are signing," Beck said. Because of the new contract, teachers at two schools have organized a union called the Southwest Ohio Catholic Educators Association. SWOCEA has now asked the archdiocese for collective bargaining rights, a doctrine endorsed by the Catholic Conference of Ohio Bishops -- including Archbishop Schnurr -- in 2010 during a legislative debate in Ohio's general assembly. Rita Schwartz, president of the National Association of Catholic School Teachers, suggests getting a seat at the table may be better than walking away. "If they want to make any change in the way they're treated as employees, you can't change from the outside. You have to change from the inside," Schwartz told CNN. Tim Garry is a Catholic, a lawyer, and his three children all went to Catholic schools. He met with Rigg in hopes of adding additional language in the contract to allay fears, but was turned down. "They think it's perfect," Garry said. "(The message) it sends: be intimidated and we're culling the herd," he added. Garry said that by "featuring all these -- again, what's referred to as the pelvic issues" the document is "a contract in search of a problem." "It's just unnecessary, and it's intimidating, too," he said. Teacher says she knew what to do For Shumate, rejecting the contract was the right thing to do so she could freely support her son Zachary without fear of reprimand or worse -- losing her job. But leaving her school hurts. "It's sad," she said." And my spirit is broken." She wishes she knew what the Pope thought of all this. "He's the one I would want some guidance from," she said. The Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender civil rights organization, has delivered a letter to Vatican representatives on behalf of nine teachers, including Shumate, who have lost or will no longer have jobs. They ask for an audience with the Pope. "We have devoted years, some of us even decades, to serving our communities as teachers, leaders and role models," the letter said. "We have made a conscious choice to work within the Catholic Church because we strongly believe that a Catholic education prepares our young people to be responsible citizens, men and women for others. For each and every one of us, our employment was far more than just a job -- it was a reflection of our core Catholic values." It may be unlikely that the Pope will get personally involved in the situation in Cincinnati. Yet, Vatican analyst John Allen says the pontiff's open-door policy to make everyone welcome appears at odds with the revised teacher contract. "Those in Cincinnati that want to argue this is not where the Pope is trying to lead the Church probably have some ammunition," he said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/world/asia/cambodia-sex-slavery-foundation-hero-resign/index.html	world	Anti-sex slavery hero in Cambodia resigns after Newsweek expose - CNN.com	2014/05/30	Friday May 30 09:03:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- She was the world's crusader against the trafficking of girls for sex in Cambodia, and she told an extraordinary personal tale: she was a village girl sold by a grandfatherly man into sex slavery. Triumphant as well as beautiful, Somaly Mam won attention from Oprah Winfrey, a New York Times columnist, a PBS documentary, Time Magazine's 100 Most Influential People of 2009, and even CNN, which named her a "Hero" in 2007. The fame -- and her memoir "The Road of Lost Innocence" -- generated millions of dollars for her Somaly Mam Foundation, fighting sex traffickers. But her personal story wasn't true, according to a Newsweek expose this month. In the wake of the magazine's revelations, Mam resigned this week from her foundation, which had hired a law firm to independently investigate Mam's background when questions arose. The law firm's findings weren't disclosed by the foundation. Mam, whose book says she was born around 1970 or 1971, couldn't be reached for comment, but the foundation still bearing her name issued a statement this week: "As a result of (the law firm's) efforts, we have accepted Somaly's resignation effective immediately," foundation executive director Gina Reiss-Wilchins said. "Despite the foundation's heartfelt disappointment, we remain grateful to Somaly's work over the past two decades and for helping to build a foundation that has served thousands of women and girls. "The foundation's commitment to eradicating the trafficking and sexual exploitation of women and girls in Southeast Asia remains steadfast, and we ask that you continue to stand with us in the face of these challenging times," Reiss-Wilchins said. Villagers contradict her A Newsweek story by Simon Marks cited how Mam's childhood acquaintances, village leaders and even a cousin contradicted her autobiography. Residents of the Thloc Chhroy village told the magazine they never saw or met the cruel "Grandfather" who turned her into a domestic slave as a child, a rich Chinese merchant who raped her, or a violent soldier whom Mam said she was forced to marry as a teenager. Mam claimed all those experiences in her story of survival. In fact, Mam arrived with a family and lived a normal life in the village from 1981 until 1987, when she finished high school and then took a teachers exam, according to a commune chief, childhood friends, a cousin and a school official interviewed by Newsweek. Furthermore, "Mam was well-known and popular in their small village, a happy, pretty girl with pigtails," Newsweek reported. Those villagers' accounts differed from the horrific personal narrative that Mam told the media and readers of her memoir. In an interview with CNN on Friday, Marks said he spoke with "to dozens of villagers, former teachers, commune chiefs, who all say that they witnessed Somaly Mam arrive in the village." "They say that they saw her arrive in the village with a family, she grew up in the village living a relatively normal life," said Marks, who's a contributor to Newsweek. Millions in donations Mam's foundation attracted such corporate partners as Estee Lauder Companies and Goldman Sachs. Actress Susan Sarandon sits on the group's advisory board. By 2011, the Somaly Mam Foundation attracted $2.1 million in revenue and incurred $3.67 million in expenses, according to its annual report. In 2012, those revenues rose to $2.78 million and the foundation's expenses fell to $2.3 million, its annual report said. That year, the foundation helped thousands of sex workers: 9,269 in Cambodia, 1,356 in Laos and 6,675 in Vietnam, the report said. Many people in Cambodia long doubted Mam's personal story, but they feared her duality: Mam was polished and charming in front of international donors, but was "tyrannical" and "moody" in the office, even ordering the girls in her foundation to do her personal chores, the magazine reported, quoting named and unnamed sources. False claims by "rescued" girls Some of the girls and young women whom Mam rescued from slavery were used in testimonials promoting Mam's foundation, but at least one of those girls later "confessed that her story was fabricated and carefully rehearsed for the cameras under Mam's instruction," Newsweek reported. Meas Ratha portrayed herself on a French television program in 1998 as a teenager who had been sold to a brothel and was forced to become a sex slave, but last year, Ratha said the foundation chose her to go on television after auditioning her, the magazine said. In fact, Ratha was never a sex slave. Her parents couldn't care for their seven children so they sent Ratha and her sister in 1997 to a refuge center of group called Agir Pour Les Femmes en Situation Precaire, or AFESIP (Helping Women in Danger), whose then president and co-founder was Mam, Newsweek said. Now in her early 30s in Phnom Penh, Ratha told Newsweek she reluctantly agreed to the fake story about being a child sex slave: "Somaly said that...if I want to help another woman I have to do [the interview] very well," she told the magazine. Ratha wasn't the only purported rescued girl telling fictions, according to the magazine. Long Pros claimed a woman kidnapped her and sold her to a brothel, where she was tortured and forced to undergo two crude abortion. Pros alleged an angry pimp gouged out one of her eyes with a piece of metal. Mam rescued Pros, and Pros' story was recounted by New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof in 2009. In 2008, he also profiled Mam in a column headlined "A Heroine From The Brothels." But Pros' family, neighbors and doctor contradicted her account: A physician performed surgery on a nonmalignant tumor covering her right eye when she was 13, and medical records clearly showed her eye before and after the surgery, Newsweek said. Pros was then sent to Mam's group to be part of a vocational training program, an eye hospital director told the magazine. This week, the foundation ended its relationship with Pros, also as a result of the law firm's investigation into her background, Reiss-Wilchins said. "We are permanently removing Ms. Pros from any affiliation with the organization or our grant partner, but will help her to transition into the next phase of her life," Reiss-Wilchins said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/16/opinion/sudan-marrying-for-love/index.html	opinion	Why marrying for love should never mean death - CNN.com	2014/05/16	Friday May 16 01:14:09 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Maajid Nawaz is co-founder and chairman of Quilliam, a think tank formed to combat extremism in society, and the author of "Radical." Ghaffar Hussain is Qulliam's managing director. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely theirs. (CNN) -- A Sudanese court sentenced a pregnant 27 year old woman, called Meriam Yehya Ibrahim, to death this week. Her crime was she fell in love and married a Christian man and affirmed her faith in Christianity. She was subsequently accused, and convicted, of apostasy, since the court in Khartoum regards her as a Muslim even though she was raised Christian by her mother after her Muslim father left when she was six years old. Since the court does not recognise her marriage to a non-Muslim either, she has also been convicted of adultery and sentenced to 100 lashes. As disturbing as the above story may be, unfortunately it does not come as a surprise. Countries such as Sudan, Pakistan and more recently Brunei are increasingly lurching towards archaic and inane interpretations of Sharia and applying laws that undermine basic human rights and equality. This not only puts them at odds with the modern world, it puts them at odds with the trajectory progressive Muslim thinkers and reformists have been travelling in for the last 200 years. The idea that Muslims who leave Islam should be killed is prominent in medieval jurisprudential texts that were written at a time when religious faith and political allegiance were inextricably linked. Hence, leaving the faith was deemed treason and construed as an act of rebellion against political authorities. As Muslim political empires became more diverse, conceptions of political allegiance began to change and in 1844, the Ottoman Empire abolished the death penalty for apostasy from Islam. Al-Azhar in Egypt, the world's most influential Sunni religious authority, followed suit in 1958 and issued a formal fatwa (religious edict) abolishing the death penalty for apostasy. Apostasy laws also blatantly contradict the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UGHR) which was introduced in 1948 and signed by most Muslim-majority countries at the time. However, the so-called "Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam," issued by Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) Foreign Ministers in 1990, contains the following clauses: "Article 10: Islam is the religion of unspoiled nature. It is prohibited to exercise any form of compulsion on man or to exploit his poverty or ignorance in order to convert him to another religion or to atheism." "Article 22(a): Everyone shall have the right to express his opinion freely in such manner as would not be contrary to the principles of the Shar'iah." "Article 25: The Islamic Shari'ah is the only source of reference for the explanation or clarification to any of the articles of this Declaration." The last two articles of this bizarre and highly-politicized declaration, allow Muslim-majority countries to violate the UDHR by invoking the Sharia as though there was a unified version of it. Not only is there no single interpretation of Sharia, but certain Muslim-majority countries seem adamant on re-invigorating some of the most regressive and outmoded interpretations of it in an almost defiant and aggressive manner. This lurch towards medievalism is largely driven by the global Islamist movement, which was born in 1928 when the Muslim Brotherhood was established, and gained real momentum after the Iranian revolution in 1979. The current regime in Sudan, which seized power after a military coup in 1989, has systematically used Islamism to silence domestic dissent. They have even reached out to Islamist militant groups in the region and hosted the late al Qaeda leader, Osama bin Laden, in the early 1990s. The global Islamist movement seeks a much greater role for Islam in the political sphere and, in its political stances, is defined by its opposition to the West. In synchronizing a medieval interpretation of Islam with politics, this movement seeks to challenge and reverse progress on human rights and equality that has been made in recent decades. Hence, we are witnessing the introduction of increasingly antiquated laws that discriminate and undermine basic rights. It is time for the Cairo Declaration to be revoked and for the Muslim human rights discourse to catch up with, and contribute as an equal partner to, modern international human rights discourse. It is also time for human rights groups and the international community to take a strong stance against any state that violates the rights of ordinary citizens for making choices the rest of us take for granted. READ: Beverly Hills tells Brunei to get out of town, sell stake in famous hotel  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/asia/india-gang-rape/index.html	world	India gang-rape: More arrests in case of teens left hanging from tree - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 02:12:45 EDT 2014	New Delhi (CNN) -- Indian authorities arrested two more men in the gang-rape of two teenage girls found hanging from a mango tree in a rural northern village. Angry villagers surrounded the bodies for hours when they were found Wednesday, accusing police of siding with the suspects and blocking them from taking the girls down. The allegations fueled anger in the community, but calm was restored after authorities promised to take action. The arrests of a police constable and another man on Friday night bring the number of suspects in custody to five, authorities said. All five men -- three brothers and two police officers -- are facing rape and murder charges, said R.K.S. Rathore, a senior police officer. More charges In addition to the rape and murder charges, the police officers have been charged with conspiracy in the crime and negligence of duty, but the prosecution may review the counts as the investigation progresses, he said. The shocking attack on the cousins ages 14 and 16 sparked outrage in Katra Sadatganj village and beyond. A photo from the village in Uttar Pradesh state showed the body of one girl, dressed in a green tunic and pants, hanging from the tree. A crowd that included young children gathered around the grisly scene. Police said an autopsy confirmed the girls had been raped and strangled. They were cremated Wednesday night in line with Hindu customs, said Mukesh Saxena, a local police official. Police under scrutiny The girls were out in the orchard relieving themselves Tuesday night when the attackers grabbed them, authorities said. Some people saw the abduction, but were unable to stop it, Saxena said, citing eyewitnesses. The victims' relatives accused local police of failing to respond and siding with the suspects when the parents reported the case. The allegations have fueled anger among the villagers. 'Endemic' violence The horrific gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old woman in New Delhi in late 2012 shook India, focusing sharp attention on violent crimes against women in the country, the world's second most populous after China. The case prompted protests in many cities, soul-searching in the media and changes to the law. But shocking instances of sexual violence continue to come to light. "Laws can only do so much when you have to end something which is as endemic and as entrenched as violence against women," said Divya Iyer, a senior researcher for Amnesty International in Bangalore, India. The country's new Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, has said he wants to take steps to ensure women are safe, particularly in rural India. But women's rights groups have criticized what they say is a lack of specific proposals to tackle the problem, suggesting gender inequality doesn't appear to be high on his list of priorities. CNN's Harmeet Shah Singh reported from New Delhi, and Faith Karimi reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Jethro Mullen contributed to this report 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/27/world/asia/new-zealand-kim-dotcom-harawira/index.html	world	Are these the world's most unlikely political bedfellows? - CNN.com	2014/05/27	Tuesday May 27 04:56:43 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The New Zealand political party founded by German Internet tycoon Kim Dotcom has joined forces with a firebrand Maori activist, in what is being described as one of the world's most unlikely political marriages of convenience. "It's a very unusual alliance... It's like Mark Zuckerberg getting into alliance with Fidel Castro," political scientist Bryce Edwards, of the University of Otago, told CNN. "The individuals involved are larger than life and dynamic people, but their ideological backgrounds are pretty disparate." The Internet-Mana Party alliance between Dotcom's recently-formed Internet Party and the left-wing, indigenous-focused Mana Party was announced Thursday by Mana's leader, the controversial Maori nationalist MP Hone Harawira. "It's completely new ground, but politics is about the art of the possible and I'm looking forward to what we can achieve," Harawira, seated next to the Internet Party's chief executive Vikram Kumar, told reporters. Dotcom, the controversial founder of the shuttered file-sharing site Megaupload, cannot personally run for office as he is not a citizen of his adopted home of New Zealand. The wealthy Web entrepreneur, who is battling extradition to the U.S. on criminal digital piracy charges, launched his party in January, with a pledge to focus on Internet privacy and government surveillance, and to make politics exciting. Critics, including New Zealand Prime Minister John Key, have described Dotcom's political activities as part of an attempt to protect himself against U.S. extradition efforts. But Harawira said the issue of whether Mana would support Dotcom's efforts to remain in New Zealand had "not even come up once" in discussions. "It's not a matter on the table at all." 'Gaming the system' Bryce said the alliance represented an attempt by the two political minnows "to game the electoral system and help each other get their politicians into parliament" at the general elections in September. Under New Zealand's proportional voting system, a party must win either an electorate seat or at least 5% of the nationwide vote to get into parliament -- a situation that hindered new parties, said Edwards, because potential supporters feared their vote would be wasted. But if Harawira retained his electorate seat, it would remove the need for the party to cross the 5% threshold, and both parties could expect their share of the national vote to count towards a representative share of seats in the 120-member parliament. Individually, both parties are currently polling at about 1%, said Edwards, but he tipped the buzz around the new alliance would see it fare better in the September vote, where it could stand to win in the order of six seats. "New Zealanders like to see outsiders having a go," he said. "The sum of the whole is going to be greater than the two parts." Odd couple The two parties make strange bedfellows, apparently sharing little common ground beyond their opposition to the current center-right National government. "On the two issues these parties are principally known for, Internet freedom and Maori nationalism, there doesn't seem to be any crossover whatsoever," said Edwards. "They're quite different versions of anti-establishment. One's an urban, middle-class, tech version, the other's more traditional left-wing, almost anti-capitalist." Harawira, the son of a veteran Maori radical, has a long history of strident Maori activism and is seen as a figure of the far-left. He has been a polarizing presence in parliament since he was elected in a seat reserved for Maori voters in 2005, criticized for remarks perceived as racist against white New Zealanders, and for calling for an opposition leader to be shot. He eventually split with the Maori Party in 2011 over their support of the government. His new party, Mana, was established primarily as a vehicle to represent the interests of indigenous New Zealanders but also attracted support from non-Maori left-wing activists. Dotcom's political tendencies are less well-known. He has previously made a NZ$50,000 ($42,792) donation to a right-wing New Zealand politician at the opposite end of the political spectrum to Mana, but the yet-to-be announced leader of the Internet Party, who will be named on Thursday, is somebody Harawira says he can work with. Internet Party chief executive Kumar said the two parties would retain their separate policies, and acknowledged his party was providing the bulk of the financial backing to the alliance. 'Big mistake' Harawira's decision to team with Dotcom's party has already drawn criticism. One of the Mana Party's founding members, the left-wing activist and former lawmaker Sue Bradford, quit the party over the move, which she labeled a "big mistake." "Sucking up to a German millionaire is not in my future," she told reporters. "There's no way I can continue to be in a party where we are all really just the political plaything of a millionaire Internet mogul." Harawira's former party has also attacked the move, with Maori Party co-leader Te Ururoa Flavell telling CNN affiliate TVNZ that "utilizing Maori seats to drag in somebody who is questionable about their knowledge about things Maori... it's not on." READ MORE: Dotcom released on bail READ MORE: Dotcom on his new file-sharing site  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/12/04/world/asia/india-rape-problem-udas/index.html	world	Covering the rape case that changed India - CNN.com	2013/12/04	Wednesday Dec 4 04:11:19 EST 2013	Editor's note: CNN International's World's Untold Stories focuses on the final days of the girl whose rape and murder in India one year ago prompted a huge backlash. Sumnima Udas looks at the profound effect it had on a country. New Delhi, India (CNN) -- When I tell people outside India that I live in New Delhi, I'm almost always asked the now inevitable question: "Do you feel safe there?" or worse, "what's with the rape culture in India?" The December 16, 2012 gang rape of a student inside a moving bus has sadly become India's defining story of the past year. CNN iReport: Do you think anything has changed? Tell us The horrific details so ingrained in people's memories, Indian cities are now perceived by many around the world as "rape capitals." However, for anyone who knows India and lives here, these sweeping generalizations are simplistic and unjustified. The definition of what constitutes rape varies from country to country so there's no internationally accepted method of comparing India's rape statistics with those of other nations. New Delhi rape exposes perils of being a woman in India But in a country of 1.2 billion people, where local sexual assault cases which wouldn't merit a mention in the U.S. or Europe now make headlines, you can be excused for thinking India is suffering from a "rape epidemic." Even Indian women's rights activists will agree, rape is not part of the country's culture; it's certainly not a new phenomenon and it's surely not particular to India. Heightened awareness What is new to this country though, and what is significant, is the heightened awareness of sexual violence against women. The discourse has dominated local newspaper editorials and television talk shows this year. Women are now feeling more emboldened to ignore the stigma and report not just cases of rape, but even harassment, molestation, stalking and voyeurism. Opinion: Where have India's females gone? It is this change that makes the December Delhi gang rape a turning point for India and perhaps the victim's lasting legacy. Indian law prohibits the naming of sexual assault victims, but to her family and millions of Indians, she will be remembered by the name the media gave her: Nirbhaya, or "fearless one." On December 17, 2012, the day after the attack, I received a text message from students at New Delhi's prestigious Jawaharlal Nehru University, informing the media of a protest being held at the location where the 23-year-old medical student and her male friend had boarded a bus the previous night. The white chartered bus that circled the city for almost an hour while the student was repeatedly raped by six men and sexually violated with an iron rod. I wasn't expecting a large showing, after all, sexual assault is sadly commonplace. Government statistics show a woman is raped every 20 minutes in India. 'Indian Spring' But when I arrived at the intersection in the upscale South Delhi neighborhood, I saw hundreds of young urban students holding hands, hoisting placards, shouting slogans. Your views: One year on, has anything changed for India's women? Send us your experiences. I remember reporting how unusual it is for this section of society to protest in New Delhi; they tend to be politically apathetic because they are the materially contented, having benefited more than others from India's economic growth over the last two decades. But one after another, young women and men took to the streets shouting, "Enough is enough." "I'm protesting today because this (rape) is an everyday problem," explained one student. "I can't wear what I want, I can't go where I want without men staring at me ... where is my freedom?" asked another. What happened next was unprecedented. Day by day, the protests swelled from hundreds to thousands to tens of thousands; young and old, men and women marching to India's seat of power, jumping over barricades, braving the water cannons in New Delhi's December cold. No one expected it to become so big. Some even called it the "Indian Spring." The government was shaken to its core. "Sometimes it just takes one incident to galvanize a society and to inspire change, and this certainly seems to be that watershed moment," I said during a live shot. Relating to victim What was it about this particular incident that struck a nerve? The horrific nature of the act was one thing, but would people have reacted in the same way if this had happened in rural India? Probably not. As one student put it, "we're protesting here because she (the victim) could have been me." Many in Delhi could relate to the victim. She represented the aspirations of so many Indian girls, studying hard, daring to dream big. The victim's family migrated to Delhi from a village in Uttar Pradesh state in search of a better life. Her father worked 16-hour shifts as a baggage handler at the Delhi airport to pay for her education. She even tutored several neighborhood children to help put her two younger brothers through school. "She had a great passion for academics. Every year the happiest day for us was when my daughter's school results would come out, she would always be one of the top two students in class," her father Badrinath Singh remembered proudly. She wanted to become a doctor and lift her family's status in society, a culture that places high value on social class. In some ways she succeeded. She managed to attend some of the country's best schools, get a job at an international call center, inspire her brothers to study engineering and aeronautics. On that fateful night, she was watching Ang Lee's "Life of Pi" at an upscale mall, where young girls in skinny jeans and tank tops hang out at Starbucks, shop at Zara and eat sushi. Fighting for women One year on, I reflect on what's changed. I have met some incredibly strong women fighting against all odds in a society which often places less value on women. Meet India's Red Brigade: The teens fighting back Sumanjeet, 25, was pressured to abort all four of her babies simply because they were girls. "How could they afford to pay for their daughter's dowry?" her husband asked. Daughters, especially in rural India, are often seen as a burden. A 16-year-old student from a lower caste (known as a dalit) was gang raped by eight upper class men in the state of Haryana. When her father found out what his daughter had been through, he killed himself out of shame. Relatives and neighbors advised the family not to report the case to the police because no one would want to marry a "tainted" girl. Victims blamed in India's rape culture I also met a mother who has been tirelessly fighting for justice the past six years. Her daughter was gang raped by wealthier neighborhood boys when she was just a teenager. This remarkable woman has hired more than a dozen lawyers, some female, but they all kept switching sides or said they could no longer represent her. The mother suspects they were bought over by the wealthier rapists. A teen's rape has far-reaching effects India's awakening Under enormous public pressure, the government ordered the December Delhi gang rape case to be fast-tracked. But what about the tens of thousands of other rape cases left languishing in India's notoriously slow-moving judicial system? All of these women though, no matter what corner of India they come from, have heard about the Delhi gang rape and the justice the victim eventually got. They say they too have a sense of hope now. In the headlines this month, the managing editor of one of India's most respected investigative magazines resigned in disgrace after he allegedly assaulted a young female colleague. He acknowledged a "lapse of judgment" but insisted it was not assault. In another case, an intern accusing a Supreme Court judge of sexual harassment. Stories which would have likely gone unnoticed, unreported a year ago. Something has shifted in India this year. An awakening of sorts. Nirbhaya's parents take solace in this. They told me they have lost everything, their lives will never be the same but they are proud of the change their daughter helped bring about. "Let us not forget, it was because of her sacrifice that all these changes have taken place and I believe there will be more positive changes in the future," her father told me, underlining the societal changes emerging out of a personal disaster. Keeping chivalry alive in India: Men respond to rape crisis  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/us/florida-bear-in-hammock/index.html	us	Black bear enjoys repose in a hammock in Daytona Beach neighborhood - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 05:02:29 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In Florida, one could coin a new term for black bears: Pets. Or maybe: Pests. Some have gotten into the habit, it seems, of visiting neighborhoods there, and on Friday, one was literally caught hanging around -- in a Daytona Beach man's hammock. "He got in the hammock like he was a tourist or something," homeowner Vincent James told CNN affiliate WESH. Usually, James is the one lounging on his back in the white rope mesh hanging between two trees. The bear enjoyed the respite enough to savor it. He -- or she -- stayed in the hammock for about 20 minutes, said photographer Rafael Torres, who snapped pictures of the bear from 60 feet away. Torres' presence did not seem to disturb the wild animal's repose. Residents say the bear has been scrounging for food in the neighborhood since Wednesday, ripping through garbage cans and knocking down bird feeders. Aw, isn't that cute? Torres and James may have felt bemused by the large, furry chum lumbering in the ranks of chirping birds and foraging squirrels on their lawns, but other Floridians have not felt that way. In April, a black bear attacked a woman in her garage and dragged her out onto her driveway. She claimed it was a posse of five bears that roughed her up, but authorities said it was only one. There were five black bears roaming the neighborhood at the time of the attack. Don't feed the bears! Wildlife officials also discourage the warm, fuzzy feeling some residents have for the black bears, pointing to the dangers they pose. Wildlife law enforcement officers arrested an 81-year-old woman from Sebring in February for feeding loads of dog food to bears on her property. She dished out up to 18 bowls at a time to furry bunches gathered in her yard. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission warned her multiple times to stop, but she would not for fear the animals would starve without her. Officers were afraid the bears would get hazardously close to humans, and they killed one bear that was frequenting her feedings. Once a bear feels too at home among people, relocating them doesn't help, the FWC said back then. It will keep coming back.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/12/04/world/asia/nirbhaya-india-rape/index.html	world	'Nirbhaya' victim of India gang rape fought for justice - CNN.com	2013/12/04	Wednesday Dec 4 04:15:21 EST 2013	Editor's note: The gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old woman in India one year ago has become a defining case in India's history. CNN International's World's Untold Stories takes a look at the events surrounding the incident through the eyes of those most closely involved -- the girl's parents, the chief police investigator, and one of her doctors. (CNN) -- The colorful, busy streets of New Delhi, India's capital, are a mixture of old and new. Some people have modern attitudes, while others remain rooted in ancient values. A 23-year-old female medical student from Ballia, in India's Uttar Pradesh State, had set out to change that. She had plans to give free medical care to the needy, to provide for her family, and to change those perceptions that a woman can't dream big in a traditionally male-dominated society. She was the bridge between India, old and new. But what happened to her on December 16, 2012 would be the country's tipping point -- a rape that shook the nation. In India, there are laws for the protection of rape victims. These laws prohibit naming or showing a victim, which is why we will refer to her only as "Nirbhaya," one of the many names given to her by the public and the Indian media. In Hindi, it means "the fearless one." Your views: One year on, has anything changed for India's women? Send us your experiences. A family's 'pillar of strength' In an apartment provided by the government, the young woman's mother, Asha Devi, said her daughter had dreams of providing free medical care to those who could not afford it. She also said her daughter was a "pillar of strength to the family," which includes two brothers. Nirbhaya's father, Badrinath Singh, a baggage handler at the Delhi airport, earned barely enough to make ends meet. He also shared his daughter's dream. "We did everything we could for her education," he told us. "I worked double shifts, sold our only piece of land in the village and went beyond my capacity so that she could study. Doing a 16-hour shift at my age is very difficult, but I still did it." Last December, Nirbhaya was scheduled to start an internship. Her parents wanted her to have some fun. She thought of going to a movie. Her mother agreed -- otherwise, she would not have had a chance to relax for another few months. So Nirbhaya and a male friend set out to an upscale Delhi mall to watch Ang Lee's "Life of Pi." That night was December 16, 2012. The next time Singh and Devi would see their daughter, she'd be fighting for her life. A bus ride from hell When Nirbhaya and her friend finished the movie, they tried to find an auto rickshaw, a three-wheeled taxi, to take them back to the outskirts of the city. It was a 45-minute drive no one was willing to take that night. Instead, they boarded a white bus at a busy bus stop. It was not late at night. She was not out alone. They were taking public transportation. She had done all the things women all over the world are told to do in the interest of safety. It was not enough. On the bus were five other male passengers and a male driver. At first, nothing seemed out of the ordinary. But shortly after they boarded the bus, her male friend was beaten, and the young woman was dragged to the back of the bus and violently gang raped. The men took turns, even violating her with an iron rod. They beat them both within an inch of their lives, as the bus drove around Delhi for over an hour. Then, the men dumped them on the side of the road, left for dead. No one would help them, until a few police cars showed up. According to the male friend, the policemen weren't sure who had jurisdiction. They waited for an ambulance that never came, he said. So he carried his bleeding friend to a police van, and they took her to Safdarjung Hospital. "The atrocious, unbelievable injuries that she had sustained, we had never seen before," said Dr. MC Mishra, one of the many doctors who would treat her in the coming days. "In my almost 40 years of career, I have never witnessed such a horrific brutality by human beings." 'I will get better soon' Her mother waiting at home sensed something was awry. "That day she didn't call back after leaving home," she said. "Usually she would call us and inform as soon as she'd reach the place. It was half past eight and we hadn't heard from her. We tried calling her but she didn't answer the phone." They waited and called again. "It seemed as if she dropped her phone while trying to answer and the line got disconnected," her mother said. They called again, but this time her daughter's cell phone was switched off. When the phone finally rang, it was not their daughter on the other end. It was someone at Safdarjung Hospital, telling them their daughter was in surgery. When they found their daughter there, they were speechless. "What was in front of our eyes what hard to even imagine," Devi, her mother said. "We didn't know how to react for the first few moments." Their daughter lay on a stretcher, but she was conscious. "She looked at me and started crying," her dad recalled. He tried to soothe his only daughter. Keep calm, and do not worry anymore, he told her. He would take care of everything, he assured her. "I couldn't be with her for long," he said. "I just couldn't see her in so much pain. I would keep visiting her every few hours but wouldn't stay longer. I'd go and pat on her head. At times she'd be sleeping. She would smile whenever she saw me. But I didn't have the courage to see her like that." Nirbhaya told her mother they beat her badly. "What could she say... even I didn't have the courage to ask her anything," Devi said. "She was in great pain, so we never asked her anything." Even in so much pain, Nirbhaya tried to reassure her parents. She kept telling them: "Don't worry, I'm doing better and will get better very soon." Sexual harassment in India: 'The story you never wanted to hear' Rape that shocked the world Unfortunately, what happened to Nirbhaya is not uncommon in India. The country, with a combination of conservative, male-dominated thinking and weak law enforcement, has recently been in the spotlight for widespread violence against women. But it is not a new problem. New Delhi rape exposes perils of being a woman in India In 2012, there were 706 reported rapes in Delhi alone. Nationwide, a woman is raped every 20 minutes. But those numbers don't tell the whole story. Most rapes are never reported -- and never prosecuted -- mainly to avoid the stigma of damaged honor in a country where victims of sexual assault are often viewed with suspicion. Opinion: Where have India's females gone? But it was what happened next that made this case different. Within days, word had spread across India and around the world. The brutal nature of the attack had struck a nerve. And in their thousands, Indian citizens -- both men and women -- took to the streets in protest. Enough was enough, they shouted. It is time to protect women in India. In the hospital, Nirbhaya and her parents weren't aware of what was happening until a doctor showed them a newscast. They saw the protesters. They also saw the police trying to keep them at bay with water cannons. "That day I felt whatever was happening wasn't right," said Nirbhaya's father. "Our daughter's life was already at stake. If these protests took anymore lives, it would have been worse. It was winter and water cannons would have caused much harm. At that time, through media, I appealed to the public to maintain calm. "We never thought something like this could ever happen to us," said her mother. "It shook the entire nation and led to public outrage on the streets. After seeing all that, we felt humanity still prevails on this earth." A fight to the end Meanwhile, lead police investigator Chhaya Sharma and her team worked tirelessly to find the rapists. In the hospital, Sharma said, Nirbhaya was crucial in providing clues to the police. She and the male friend helped lead investigators to the white bus, and to its driver -- Ram Singh -- who had driven the bus around as the gang rape took place. He eventually led them to the other five men who had been on board that night. By December 22, according to Sharma, all six suspects had been arrested. But back in the hospital, Nirbhaya was slowly losing her fight. The vicious attack had damaged her intestines, which had to be removed. The decision was made to transfer her to a hospital in Singapore. But she developed an infection, and later died there on December 29, 2012. "Her brothers, father and I had gone with her to Singapore," said Nirbhaya's mother. "All four of us were standing right next to her when she took her last breath. What could we do? We quietly kept on gazing at her from one corner, crying. Being in a foreign land we didn't know anybody, we couldn't even understand their language so we had no idea what the doctors were saying among themselves." Then doctors came to them. "Sorry, there's nothing we can do now." "That's when we realized our daughter was no more," her mother said. With heavy hearts, Nirbhaya's family returned to India at the end of 2012 with their daughter's body. When the news spread that she had died, anger turned to grief, and protests became vigils. "To tell you the truth, I saw on TV what was happening outside, but could not register anything, as our minds were preoccupied by something else," said Nirbhaya's father. "We understood the magnitude of the impact of this incident only once I reached my native village with my daughter's ashes. That's when I figured it wasn't ordinary. People kept coming and sharing with us all that had happened in past few days. So after listening to all those stories, I realized we are not alone, we have full support of our fellow citizens, media and police in our fight for justice." A teen's rape also had far-reaching effects The reckoning That fight for justice would be a long and complicated road. The charges against the accused were rape, kidnapping and murder. With the public in the streets once again, the prosecution decided it would fast-track the trial. In the courtroom, Nirbhaya's parents came face-to-face with her alleged attackers. They were forced to hear accounts of the unspeakable violence against their daughter, time and time again. "The convicts showed no remorse," said Nirbhaya's mother. "They were not even ashamed of what they had done. They were very casual, sometimes even cracking jokes during the trial." "It didn't really affect me looking at them," said her father. "If there are demons in society then there are also angels. Because of their deeds, our family is suffering, and so must be theirs. Whatever happened has caused pain on both sides. We are suffering as we lost a loved one. Their families will suffer if they lose them. People like them don't just ruin one family but thousands of families because of their evil acts." The trial went on for months. Then, in March 2013, the bus driver Ram Singh was found dead in his jail cell, where he had apparently hanged himself. And the sixth suspect, a minor at the time of the attack, was convicted in a juvenile court. He was sentenced to only three years in a rehabilitation center, prompting further outrage from the public and the family. The fate of the remaining four suspects remained with the fast-tracked court. The guilty verdict the entire country had been waiting for came in September. In a stunning move for a country that rarely condones the death penalty, the four convicted men were indeed sentenced to die. Ten months since the death of their daughter, Nirbhaya's parents finally felt they had justice. "The incident sparked reactions from across the nation," said her mother. "There was so much public outrage due to the brutality involved. The convicts were also handed out punishment according to the crime they committed. So I am hopeful it should set a precedent and help change the way people think." Covering the case that changed India A brave heart To India, Nirbhaya has become a symbol of bravery, courage and change. But to her parents, she will always be their baby girl. "Our grief can't be measured," her father said quietly. "Whatever maximum limit you can think of will still fall short of the pain we went through. I don't have words to describe my loss. We had lost sense of everything -- from eating to sleeping to everything else. We had lost track of day and night. Everything had come to a standstill." Meet India's Red Brigade: Teens fighting back against rape One year after the attack, India is a changed country. Women -- and men -- are standing up for their rights -- the right to be protected, in their own cities and in their own homes. Since the attack, police say more women are reporting crimes against them. India's laws have also been changed to widely expand protection of sexual assault victims. Opinion: Misogyny in India That will be the lasting legacy of Nirbhaya, a girl India has never met in person, never seen. The girl who did not allow anyone who came in contact with her to feel sorry for her situation. The girl who reassured her parents she would be OK. The girl who helped police track down her attackers. The girl who lived for nearly two weeks, when no one gave her a chance to make it through the first night. The girl they call Nirbhaya, "the fearless one." "My daughter put up a tough fight against her attackers and didn't give in until her last breath," said Nirbhaya's mother. "I want her to be remembered as a brave heart."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/health/the-truth-about-tobacco/index.html	health	The truth about tobacco - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 05:41:52 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/asia/china-tiananmen-attack/index.html	world	Report: Indictments in last year's Tiananmen Square attack - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 07:23:29 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Eight people in China have been indicted for their roles in an attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported Saturday, citing local authorities. Authorities in the restive Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in western China accused the suspects of organizing, leading and participating as a terrorist group and endangering public security. The people were indicted Friday. The eight are to stand trial in Urumqi, the capital of the region, where Chinese authorities have cracked down on violence involving Uyghurs, a Turkic-speaking, predominantly Muslim ethnic group. The Tiananmen incident occurred October 28, when a vehicle drove through security barriers into a crowd in the square. It crashed into a pedestrian bridge in front of the Forbidden City and burst into flames. The attack killed five people, including three in the vehicle, and wounded 40 others. Not along after that attack, one Islamic militant group called the strike a "jihadi operation" and warned of more violence to come. In a speech posted online, Abdullah Mansour, the leader of the Turkestan Islamic Party, said those who carried out the attack were "mujahideen," the SITE Intelligence group said in a report. East Turkestan is the name used by many Uyghur groups to refer to Xinjiang. Chinese authorities accuse Uyghurs of carrying out the Beijing attack and have cranked up efforts to thwart violence after two recent high-profile strikes in the Xinjiang region. Twenty-nine people were killed and 130 injured when men armed with long knives stormed a train station in Kunming in March. The following month, an attack on a train station in Urumqi left three dead, including the attackers, and an attack on an Urumqi market this month killed at least 39. In response, police in Xinjiang launched a crackdown on extremist groups, arresting 200 suspects and seizing hundreds of explosive devices, Chinese state media reported this week. The state's anti-terrorist force has been beefed up in Xinjiang and security tightened across the country. On Wednesday, a Chinese court sentenced 55 people on terrorism charges before thousands of onlookers in a stadium in Xinjiang. The trial was held in a stadium in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture before about 7,000 spectators, according to reports. The accused were found guilty by the Higher People's Court of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of charges including intentional homicide, separatism and organizing, leading and participating in terrorist activities. Some Uyghurs have expressed resentment toward China's Han majority in recent years over what they say is harsh treatment from Chinese security forces and Han people taking the lion's share of economic opportunities in Xinjiang. Uyghurs are said to have faced widespread discrimination, including in employment, housing and educational opportunities, as well as curtailed religious freedom and political marginalization. CNN's Jethro Mullen and Joe Sterling contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/asia/pakistan-honor-murder/index.html	world	Pakistani suspects in stoning death to go to terrorism court - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 07:16:57 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Five relatives arrested in the public stoning death of a pregnant Pakistani woman will be taken to an anti-terrorism court, authorities said. Farzana Parveen, 25, was killed in Lahore because she married a man against her family's wishes. Police arrested her father, her uncle, two cousins and the driver who brought them to Lahore, said Zulfikar Hameed, the lead investigator in the case. The court is treating the act as an act of terror that has "wider consequences on the safety and well being of all of society," according to lawyer Maliha Zia, who works for Aurat Foundation, a Pakistani women's rights organization. She said she was worried that international pressure may have forced the government to convene an anti-terrorist court in an act of "show and tell." "I hope that the quality of the trial does not go down if it's sped up," she said. "The investigation does not suffer and the trial does not suffer because of the shortened time period. What I'm hoping for is a better quality trial." Pakistani police officers will be investigated because they didn't intervene when Parveen was publicly beaten to death with bricks, a court official said. Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on Friday called the killing "totally unacceptable" and said it's a "great shame" for such a crime to happen in the presence of police. About 20 people, including members of Parveen's immediate family, attacked her with bricks Tuesday outside a court building in Lahore, police said. Such killings not uncommon Such killings often originate from tribal traditions in Pakistan but are not a part of Islam. They usually happen in rural areas, not large cities such as Lahore. Human rights activists said bystanders, including police, often don't intervene because the killings are considered family matters. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan said 869 women were victims last year (PDF) in the nation of about 180 million people. They are sometimes called honor killings because the women are accused of bringing dishonor upon the family by having an adulterous affair, being raped or wearing clothes considered revealing. Women's rights advocates say the actual number may be much higher. The United Nations estimates that at least 5,000 women worldwide die yearly in such killings. The prevalence of violence against women in Pakistan became apparent Thursday when Parveen's husband, Mohammad Iqbal, revealed to CNN that he killed his first wife six years ago so he could marry Parveen. His son said Iqbal served a year in jail. Iqbal, a neighbor of Parveen's family, said he and Parveen were supposed to marry with the family's approval last year. In December, her father and brothers decided Parveen, who came from a village in Punjab, should instead marry a cousin, police said. Opinion: How stoning of a woman riled the world Bride's family infuriated Parveen and Iqbal eloped and were married January 7 in a court ceremony. But Iqbal told GEO TV that Parveen's family was infuriated and filed a kidnapping case against him and other members of his family. They also demanded 100,000 rupees (about $1,000), he said. The couple went into hiding and filed statements in court to prove the kidnapping allegations false, Iqbal said. On Tuesday morning, they were scheduled to appear before a judge when Parveen's family allegedly attacked outside the court building. "We went to the court to seek justice to tell them what had happened. We were sitting there when all of a sudden they appeared," he told GEO TV. "Someone fired shots in the air. My wife and I were sitting, and then bricks were thrown. Then a lady came and took Farzana away." Police stood and watched and didn't come to their aid, Iqbal said. He said the crowd killed his wife and her fetus. In addition to the prime minister, other officials rushed to denounce the killing. The chief minister of Punjab, Shahbaz Sharif, gave a 24-hour ultimatum to the inspector general to arrest the suspects. He asked that a murder trial be held in an anti-terrorism court. Britsh Foreign Secretary William Hague said, "There is absolutely no honor in honor killings, and I urge the government of Pakistan to do all in its power to eradicate this barbaric practice." Sudan woman clings to Christian faith despite death sentence, husband says CNN's Sophia Saifi reported from Islamabad. CNN's Aliza Kassim reported and wrote in Atlanta, and Ralph Ellis wrote in Atlanta. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/sport/football/football-spain-england/index.html	iSport	Mixed fortunes for Fernando Torres in Spain win - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 07:08:42 EDT 2014	Join the World Cup conversation at CNN Facebook Pulse (CNN) -- Fernando Torres may have booked his place in Spain's 23-man squad for its defense of the World Cup by scoring the opening goal in a 2-0 warmup win over Bolivia in Sevilla. Torres was making his first appearance for the world champions since the Confederation Cup nearly a year ago and is desperate to impress coach Vicente Del Bosque. The Chelsea striker put in a generally lively performance at the Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan Stadium and after Bayern Munich's Javi Martinez was pulled down in the penalty area, Torres scored from the spot on 51 minutes. Read: Torres Chelsea future in doubt But moments later Torres showed the other side of his game, a lack of confidence perhaps after only 20 goals in 110 games since $84 million move to his English Premier League side. Put through by man of the match Andres Iniesta, Torres attempted a chipped finish over the head of Bolivian goalkeeper Romel Quininez, but made a horrible hash of it, sending it high and wide. Torres held his head in his hands, but the miss did not prove significant and Iniesta wrapped up the victory with a stunning goal six minutes from time. Torres and the likes of former Chelsea teammate Juan Mata were included in the Spain team as Del Bosque ponders his final squad with several players such as Atletico Madrid striker Diego Costa struggling with injury. Del Bosque gave a positive verdict on Torres, who has played in the last two World Cup and scored 37 goals for his country. Read: Iniesta goal gives Spain its first World Cup "We have a lot of confidence in him and that's why he is here," Del Bosque told gathered reporters after the win. "We are pleased with how he worked tonight," he added. Spain opens its defense of the World Cup with a tough match against the Netherlands on June 13, a repeat of the 2010 final in which Iniesta scored the only goal of the game. Meanwhile, England got its preparations for Brazil off to a good start with a comfortable 3-0 win over Peru at Wembley. Daniel Sturridge scored a stunning first half opener for Roy Hodgson's men == the third goal in his last five starts for England for the Liverpool star. Central defenders Gary Cahill and Phil Jagielka were on target after the break after well-delivered corners troubled the South American visitors.. Read: Dzeko urges the world to help Bosnia Bosnia-Herzegovina was also boosted by a 2-1 success against fellow finalists Ivory Coast. Its talisman Edin Dzeko grabbed goals in either half before Didier Drogba pulled one back for the Ivorians in the final minute.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/health/ocd-scrupulosity-religion/index.html	health	Religious OCD: 'I'm going to hell' - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 07:33:51 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When she was 12, Jennifer Traig's hands were red and raw from washing them so much. She'd start scrubbing a half an hour before dinner; when she was done, she'd hold her hands up like a surgeon until her family sat down to eat. Her handwashing compulsions began at the time she was studying for her Bat Mitzvah. She was so worried about being exposed to pork fumes that she cleaned her shoes and barrettes in a washing machine. "Like a lot of people with OCD, I tended to obsess about cleanliness," said Traig, now 42. "But because I was reading various Torah portions, I was obsessed with a biblical definition of cleanliness." Family dinners were awkward for Tina Fariss Barbour, too, as an adolescent. She would concentrate so hard on praying for forgiveness that if anyone tried to interrupt her thoughts, she wouldn't respond. "First I had to get rid of all my sins, ask forgiveness, do it in the right way, and then I had to pray for protection," said Barbour, now 50. "Or, if something bad happened to my family, it would be my fault because I had not prayed good enough." The women come from different faith backgrounds: Barbour is Methodist and Traig is Jewish. But as children they believed fervently that they needed to conduct their own rituals and prayers, or else disaster would befall their families. Both women say they suffered from a form of obsessive-compulsive disorder known as scrupulosity. A fear of sin or punishment from deities characterizes this condition, said Jonathan Abramowitz, professor and associate chairman of the department of psychology at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, or OCD, involves unwanted thoughts ("obsessions") and accompanying behaviors called compulsions that patients use to reduce anxiety. In scrupulosity, the obsessions have a religious or moral underpinning. Patients with scrupulosity often describe how they believe their thoughts are morally equivalent to actions, Abramowitz said. Psychologists call this phenomenon "thought-action fusion." "Scrupulosity literally means 'fearing sin where there is none,' " Abramowitz and colleague Ryan Jacoby wrote in a recent article. How common is this condition? Scrupulosity is an understudied subcategory of OCD. Attempts at characterizing how many people might have this disorder, from the 1990s and early 2000s, suggested that somewhere between 5% and 33% of OCD patients have religious obsessions. Scientists are not sure what causes OCD, but they believe a combination of genetic and environmental factors may be at play. In societies where religiosity is more stringent, the numbers are higher: 50% of OCD patients in Saudi Arabia and 60% in Egypt said they had religious obsessions, according to studies from the early 1990s. A small number of people with scrupulosity are not religious at all, and a fear of moral transgression or inadvertently offending others weighs on their conscience, Abramowitz said. Psychologists do not believe that religion causes people to develop OCD. However, religion may influence whether someone with OCD experiences obsessions and compulsions related to religion, Abramowitz said. A tendency to get anxious and difficulties with uncertainty may factor into the condition, Abramowitz said. And, he pointed out, the vast majority of religious people do not have OCD. Many "scrupulous" people Abramowitz has met consider religion to be an important part of their lives, but they may avoid institutions such as churches, synagogues or mosques because it reminds them too much of their anxieties. "They're walking around with this black cloud of 'I'm going to hell,' " Abramowitz said. Such a cloud has been been present for centuries. The OCD History Website cites passages from the first century priest and essayist Plutarch and sixth century monk John Climacus that could be interpreted as descriptions of scrupulosity. St. Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Jesuits, who died in 1556, appears to have suffered from the condition, said William Van Ornum, professor of psychology at Marist College. Ignatius wrote about his fears about stepping on something that looked like a cross. There have also been suggestions that Martin Luther experienced scrupulous obsessions, Van Ornum said. Robert Waters, a retired Lutheran minister, runs an online support network called The Scrupe Group. He said it has about 1,000 members, including Christians of several denominations, Jews, and at least one Hindu and one Muslim. Waters, who has suffered from scrupulosity personally, offers pastoral advice, but also tries to help people overcome their distrust of their own judgment. "I think that's really a major part of it: To get to the point where people form their own consciences and don't rely on other people's," he said. Did I do it right? Scrupulosity often involves a lot of checking, Abramowitz said. Patients experience distress around the idea that they may have done something wrong or improper, so they may consult the Bible or religious authority figures often to see if they're doing things right. Consulting people and books isn't pathological, but in scrupulosity the behavior of checking is excessive compared to other religious people. Barbour often confessed bad thoughts to her parents or religious leaders. Feelings of guilt followed her for years. "OCD makes you think in black and white," she said. "There are no gray areas. Clean or not. Good or bad. There's nothing in between." Barbour attended a religious school run by evangelical Christians. The altar calls, when the devout are asked to come forward and commit to Jesus Christ, heightened her anxieties about being good enough. She was also taught that if she had unforgiven sins, God could not hear her. Her obsessions took a toll on schoolwork, too. Texts were difficult to read without reviewing the same passage over and over, a problem people with other forms of OCD experience. Traig didn't have a complete Jewish education; she invented her own prayers to say three times a day, until a rabbi taught her the actual words. Rather than fearing sin, which has a distinct meaning in Christianity, Traig was worried she would be punished if she didn't practice her religion correctly. "I couldn't have put my finger on what the punishment would be," she said. "Just a sense of doom." When the space shuttle Challenger exploded in 1986, killing the crew of seven, Traig felt partially responsible. Her OCD flared up around ages 12 to 13, and again from 16 to 17. With a Christian mother and a nonpracticing Jewish father, living in rural California, Traig didn't have many models of what Judaism could look like without constant anxiety about botching rituals. Learning how to doubt in a healthy way  The form of cognitive behavioral therapy used with scrupulous patients is called exposure therapy. This involves the patient confronting what he or she fears: Namely, uncertainty. Some people Abramowitz has worked with are anxious that they sometimes doubt their own belief in God. In therapy, they practice learning to live with the faith and uncertainty that normally surrounds religious beliefs. "This is done by helping the patient to experience these types of uncertainties and learn that they, like any other religious person, can live with them comfortably," Abramowitz said. Triggers of obsessive thoughts, such as a religious symbol or scriptural passage or even going to church, would be part of therapy. "Faith is about being comfortable with your beliefs even if you can't have a 100% guarantee about things like hell, whether there is really a God, or what it means to be faithful enough," Abramowitz said. "You're taught to have faith, even though you cannot have scientific proof." Keeping up religious traditions can be another source of anxiety. Ultra-religious Orthodox Jews, for instance, follow strict rules about separating milk from meat, and some consider this tenet so sacred that they have separate refrigerators for meat and dairy. Some people with scrupulosity develop anxieties around this rule, going as far as to avoid the milk refrigerator altogether while carrying meat. In exposure therapy, the patient might walk past the milk refrigerator while holding meat to confront her fear, Abramowitz said. That doesn't violate Jewish law, but confronts the fear of using the wrong refrigerator by mistake. Some patients may also receive Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors, drugs that are also used to treat depression, according to the International OCD Foundation. Treatment sessions are usually once a week, between 12 and 20 times, or five days a week for three weeks, Abramowitz said. Members of the patient's faith community may be involved in the treatment, too. Religious but without OCD Overcoming scrupulosity does not need to mean giving up religion. Waters left the Lutheran church at age 19 in part because of his OCD, but returned in his mid-20s, and was inspired to go to seminary at age 31. He came to realize that faith is partly about letting go of the idea that any individual can control all circumstances or prevent every tragedy. "The process of coming back to the church was as much a part of the recovery as the therapy was," he said. Barbour got a diagnosis of OCD at age 26. She still slips into anxiety occasionally, but therapy has given her tools to fight back. Rather than trying to stop her obsessions, she imagines her thoughts flowing like a river, and takes deep breaths. She runs a blog called "Bringing Along OCD." Traig did talk therapy, but not specifically for OCD. She overcame her thought and behavior patterns in college, when she had to live with others her own age and feared being socially ostracized. She wrote a book discussing her experiences called "Devil in the Details." Today, she identifies with a blend of Conservative and Orthodox Judaism, and has a 3-year-old son and a 5-year-old daughter. Her daughter can't read prayer books, but she'll announce "I have to go say my prayers!" and invent a chant. Traig knows OCD has genetic links. She's also grateful that there's greater awareness and more treatment options for this condition than when she was a teen. If her daughter's prayer antics ever turn obsessive, she said, "We're on that right away." International OCD Foundation: Scrupulosity Fact Sheet Follow Elizabeth Landau on Twitter at @lizlandau  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/sport/golf/casey-memorial-mcilroy/index.html	iSport	Paul Casey leads way at Memorial as McIlroy collapses - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 07:59:33 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- A second consecutive round of 66 fired Paul Casey to the top of the Memorial Tournament leaderboard in Dublin, Ohio, Friday after overnight leader Rory McIlroy fell away. Casey shot six birdies and an eagle, which more than canceled out bogies on holes nine and 17, to finish the day on 12-under-par. The Englishman now sits three shots ahead of Masters champion Bubba Watson going into the weekend. "I had very good control of the irons today," Casey told the PGA Tour website upon reaching the clubhouse. "The driving was still good again but I was ecstatic with the way I played. There was a couple of mistakes in there. But that's Muirfield Village. It's a tricky golf course and you don't need to do a lot wrong to make a mistake." Read: McIlroy continues hot streak McIlroy had led by three strokes after Thursday's stunning 63 but fell way back to tie for 24th position at the end of day thanks to second round 78 that included three bogeys and three double-bogeys. The 25-year-old Northern Irishman, who picked up the European PGA title at Wentworth last weekend, had complained of a knee problem after his first round but refused to blame injury for his poor showing. "I felt it a little bit, but didn't really bother me too much," he said. "Hopefully that's the bad run out of the way and I can play some good golf on the weekend and get myself back in with the shots," he added. Elsewhere on the course, a 70 for Chris Kirk ensured he kept up the pressure on second-placed Watson, lying one shot back at eight-under-par. Japan's Hideki Matsuyama, meanwhile, carded a five-under par round of 67 to tie for fourth with Martin Flores of the U.S. on seven-under-par. World No. 1 Adam Scott, who won the Colonial tournament last weekend, shot a solid second round of 70 to end the day tied for 10th position at five-under-par.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/americas/honduras-detained-americans/index.html	world	Six Americans detained in Honduras on weapons possession charges - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 08:45:47 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Six Americans who were salvaging goods from the bottom of the sea off the coast of Honduras have sat in a jail there for over three weeks as officials have charged them with illegal weapons possession. On May 5, after the ship pulled into port in Puerto Lempira, police came aboard, arrested the crew and confiscated the vessel, according to a Facebook statement from Aqua Quest, the Florida company the men work for. The ship's captain said from jail that the weapons on board were for personal protection against pirates. "It's suicide not to carry them," said Robert Mayne, one of the detained Americans. Michael McCabe, a crew member who was not detained, said the men do not have access to good sanitation and are not being properly fed. "The inmates only ever eat beans and rice. I'm told it's one spoon of each, and that's it," he said after visiting them. Aqua Quest alleges in its statement that authorities boarding and searching the ship circumvented proper legal procedures. The company said Honduran officials had the legal possibility of dealing with the weapons without imposing detentions. The official charge is illegal possession of firearms detrimental to the internal security of Honduras, according to a court document. The caliber of the weapons and the fact that one is semiautomatic also seems to bother authorities, who have termed them "commercial." A lawyer in Honduras familiar with the case says the men could face up to 16 years in prison. U.S. Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick, R-Pennsylvania, has attempted to intervene on the men's behalf. "I have been working with American officials and other contacts to expedite the detainees' release. I have formally written to the Honduran Ambassador to the United States requesting his personal engagement to swiftly resolve the situation," he said in a statement. Aqua Quest salvages precious cargo from sunken vessels, according to its website. That can range from valuable ore to historic artifacts. Its team was in Honduras for a project in cooperation with a local town, the company said. CNN's Tara Kangarlou and Hamdi Alkhshali contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/europe/ukraine-crisis/index.html	world	Quiet in Donetsk while roadblocks fortified outside city - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 10:32:00 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Pro-Russian separatists built roadblocks on the main routes into the flashpoint eastern Ukraine city of Donetsk on Saturday in an effort to prevent Ukrainian troops from entering. A CNN team saw two new checkpoints manned by members of the Vostok Battalion being established on the eastern outskirts of town. Another roadblock close to the airport, where there were heavy clashes earlier in the week, has been reinforced. The separatist unrest that has gripped Ukraine in recent weeks has been centered in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. The Vostok Battalion is largely made up of Russians who have arrived in Donetsk in the past week. Local pro-Russian separatists say they have joined forces with the Battalion, and some are wearing its insignia. One of the separatists, who gave his name as Dimitri Alexevich and who was in charge of a checkpoint on the highway south to Mariupol, said they were coordinating with the Battalion and were confident they could turn back any attempt by the Ukrainian military to advance into the city. A pro-Russian rally in the center of Donetsk was attended by about 1,000 people Saturday. It featured speeches from two of the main pro-Russian political leaders in the region, Denis Pushilin and Alexander Borodai. In a CNN interview, Borodai, Prime Minister of the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic, said he expected more Russians to come into Ukraine to support the separatists. He also said there had been an approach from people associated with the President-elect, Petro Poroschenko, and he was waiting to see what they might propose in terms of a negotiated settlement. But he said the goal remained federation with Russia. While Donetsk was quiet Saturday, a Ukrainian Anti-Terrorist Operation spokesman told the state news agency Ukrinform that paratroopers twice repelled attacks on the airport by pro-Russian separatists around dawn. CNN cannot confirm that the attacks took place, but local residents quoted on social media spoke of hearing exchanges of fire at the time. CNN saw Ukrainian military convoys on the main road approaching Donetsk from the west Friday and Saturday. They were small detachments towing anti-aircraft guns; their destination was unknown. Meanwhile, eight international monitors representing the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe and a translator are still missing. They were part of a monitoring mission in the eastern part of the country and have been missing since Monday, deputy spokeswoman Natacha Rajakovic confirmed Saturday. Four of the monitors are believed to be detained by pro-Russian separatists in the city of Slovyansk. The other four monitors and a translator are part of the organization's Luhansk-based team. After violence earlier in the week in which several civilians were killed, as well as at least 30 pro-Russian militia members at the airport, many stores in Donetsk have closed, and some have been boarded up. Some families also sent their children to relatives elsewhere in Ukraine after the end of the school year Friday.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/health/washington-birth-defects/index.html	health	Parents ask: Why did my baby die? - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 11:09:15 EDT 2014	CNN's John Bonifield contributed to this story.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/europe/uk-heathrow-arrest/index.html	world	Man arrested at Heathrow Airport on terrorism charges - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 11:24:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- London's Metropolitan Police confirmed that officers from the police's Counter Terrorism Command, SO15, have arrested a 19-year-old man on suspicion of preparing for acts of terrorism. Though they are not yet releasing details on the charges or the man's name, Scotland Yard said the man was arrested at London's Heathrow Airport on Saturday and remains in custody at a police station in South London. Scotland Yard also said the arrest is not in response to any immediate risk or threat. Police have searched an address in Camden, a northern borough of London, though no information is being released on that search at this point. From CNN's Joseph Netto. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/europe/turkey-cnn-reporter-harassed/index.html	world	Turkish cops harass CNN reporter on air - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 12:21:27 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A CNN correspondent was harassed by Turkish plainclothes police as he was live on air, reporting on tensions between the officers and demonstrators on the first anniversary of mass protests in Istanbul. International correspondent Ivan Watson had just finished explaining that police had closed off central Istanbul to prevent demonstrators from being able to lay flowers at the sight of last year's protests when he himself was manhandled by officers. Viewers of CNN International on Saturday morning watched as officers demanded to see Watson's press credentials and passport, as well as those of his crew. The camera kept rolling as the officers grabbed Watson and started walking with him. One officer kneed him in the back. They also broke the microphone off CNN's camera while wrestling it out of the hands of the cameraman. The veteran reporter told anchor Errol Barnett, "Errol, we're being detained right now." Watson and his team were escorted in police custody. Police officers argued that Watson's press accreditation, issued by the Turkish prime ministry, could have been "counterfeited" and that he had to produce a passport. He was not permitted to leave until the passport was retrieved from the nearby CNN bureau. But officers didn't arrest him. According to Watson, after about a half-hour, the CNN team was released, and another officer apologized for the officer who had kneed him. Police also apologized for the inconvenience. Watson is based in Istanbul. In his 12 years in the country, the press credential has sufficed as proper identification for reporting. The demand to see a passport was unusual. He was at Taksim Square, where mass protests surged a year ago. The protests began over the proposed development of a park but swelled in large anti-government demonstrations that were met with a government crackdown. Activists called for nationwide demonstrations to mark the first anniversary of the protests, but, as Watson reported, police were denying them that opportunity. On Saturday, Gezi park -- the place where the protests started -- was closed off, and both riot police and plainclothes officers were deployed in large numbers. The Turkish government accuses protesters of trying to undermine Turkey's economy and is not allowing public displays of dissent, especially in this sensitive place, Watson said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/sport/motorsport/motogp-marquez-rossi-300th/index.html	iSport	Marc Marquez on pole as Valentino Rossi disappoints in 300th MotoGP - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 12:19:36 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Valentino Rossi will have to do it the hard way if he is to mark his 300th MotoGP with victory in front of his adoring home fans at Mugello. Rossi could only manage 10th fastest on his Yamaha in final qualifying, way off the pace set by the reigning world champion Marc Marquez of Spain Saturday. A lap of one minute 47.270 seconds lap gave Marquez his sixth straight pole of the 2014 campaign as he bids for his sixth successive victory for the all-conquering Repsol Honda works team. But for the 35-year-old MotoGP legend Rossi there was bitter disappointment after a mistake in tire choice left him uncompetitive. Read: Rossi seeks appointment with destiny in 300th race "It was the wrong decision, I felt really bad with the softer front and I was unable to improve my lap time. "It's a great shame, because I had a good potential and could have started on the front, my pace is good with the bike, but it's like this. Tomorrow from the fourth row everything will be harder and more difficult," added the Italian. Nine-time world champion Rossi has returned to form this season and chased Marquez home in the latest round in Le Mans in France, but the whole field has struggled to match the defending title holder this season. Read: Marquez edges out Rossi in Qatar opener Home rider Andrea Iannone came within 0.18 seconds of snatching pole from Marquez, with Spain's two-time world champion Jorge Lorenzo on a Yamaha third fastest. Marquez's teammate Dani Pedrosa -- the lap record holder at Mugello -- was fourth best ahead of another Spaniard, Pol Espargaro of ~Yamaha. The two Ducati's of Cal Crutchlow of Great Britain and Italian Andrea Dovizioso were sixth and eighth with another Briton, Bradley Smith, in seventh. But all eyes at the circuit in Tuscany will be on the remarkable Rossi to see if he can turn a series of second places to Marquez this season into his first victory to mark his milestone.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/asia/afghanistan-bergdahl-release/index.html	world	U.S. soldier held in Afghanistan is released - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 12:52:27 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, the American soldier held captive for nearly five years by militants during the Afghanistan war, has been released, the White House said Saturday. "Today the American people are pleased that we will be able to welcome home Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl, held captive for nearly five years," the White House said in a statement. In a statememt, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel said he had informed Congress of the decision to transfer five detainees from Guantnamo Bay to Qatar. "A few hours ago, the family of Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl was informed by President Obama that their long wait for his return will soon be over," Hagel said. "Sgt. Bergdahl is now under the care of the U.S. military after being handed over by his captors in Afghanistan. We will give him all the support he needs to help him recover from this ordeal, and we are grateful that he will soon be reunited with his family." Hagel said the United States "coordinated closely with Qatar to ensure that security measures are in place and the national security of the United States will not be compromised." The White House said, "On behalf of the American people, I was honored to call his parents to express our joy that they can expect his safe return, mindful of their courage and sacrifice throughout this ordeal." Bergdahl was deployed to Afghanistan in May 2009 and captured by the Taliban on June 30, 2009, in Paktika province. In July of that year, a U.S. military official said the soldier was being held by the clan of warlord Siraj Haqqani.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/19/us/bowe-bergdahl-fast-facts/index.html	us	Bowe Bergdahl Fast Facts - CNN.com	2014/01/19	Sunday Jan 19 05:17:45 EST 2014	(CNN) -- Here are some facts about Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, an American prisoner of war. It is believed he is being held by the Taliban-aligned Haqqani network in Pakistan. Personal:  Birth date: March 28, 1986 Birth place: Sun Valley, Idaho Birth name: Bowe Robert Bergdahl Father: Robert Bergdahl, a driver for United Parcel Service Mother: Jani Bergdahl Military: U.S. Army, 2008-present, Sergeant assigned to 1st Battalion, 501st Parachute Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division, Fort Richardson, Alaska Other Facts:  Traveled in Europe before enlisting in the Army. Worked as a crewmember on a sailboat that traveled along the East Coast and to the Caribbean. Timeline:  2008 - Enlists in the Army. May 2009 - Is deployed to Afghanistan. June 30, 2009 - Is captured in Paktika province, Afghanistan.  July 2, 2009 - A U.S. military official says that the soldier is being held by the clan of warlord Siraj Haqqani. The Taliban previously claimed to have captured the soldier. July 19, 2009 - A video of Bergdahl is posted on the Internet.  December 25, 2009 - Bergdahl's captors release a video of him. April 7, 2010 - Another video of Bergdahl is released. June 12, 2010 - Bergdahl is promoted to specialist. December 7, 2010 - His captors releases a nearly 45-minute video of a thin Westerner identified as Spc. Bowe Bergdahl. February 2011 - Another video of Bergdahl is released. May 6, 2011 - Robert Bergdahl, Bowe's father, makes his first statement since the disapperance of his son. Releases a YouTube video asking for his son's release. June 12, 2011 - Bergdahl is promoted to sergeant. May 2012 - The U.S. government acknowledges that it has engaged in talks with the Taliban to free Bergdahl. June 6, 2013 - Bergdahl's family announces that "through the International Committee of the Red Cross, we recently received a letter we're confident was written to us by our son." January 2014 - A U.S. military official tells CNN that the military has obtained a new video of Bergdahl.  February 18, 2014 - A U.S. official tells CNN that discussions are under way with intermediaries overseas to see if there is any ability to gain Bergdahl's release. The discussions are being led by U.S. diplomats and the Defense Department is involved.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/15/us/bowe-bergdahl-profile/index.html	us	Bowe Bergdahl: Strong, well-rounded and easy to talk to, friends say - CNN.com	2014/01/15	Wednesday Jan 15 07:38:26 EST 2014	(CNN) -- People who know Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl have described him as a well-rounded, well-grounded and hard-working young man. Those attributes served him well during five years of captivity that ended with his negotiated release, announced Saturday by the White House. In a statement, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel said he had informed Congress of the decision to transfer five detainees from Guantnamo Bay to Qatar as part of the handover. Bergdahl, 28, was captured by militants in Afghanistan in June 2009. Over the course of the years since, Berghdahl was seen in so called proof-of-life videos. In some, Bergdahl seemed to be in diminished health -- a picture that was hard to envision for family and friends. For them, strong has been a word often associated with Bergdahl. After he was taken, CNN spoke to friends of his, including a fishing boat captain who hired Bergdahl two years earlier. Bergdahl spent 10 weeks on the vessel near Bristol Bay, Alaska, pulling in sockeye salmon for 18 to 20 hours a day. Dan Collins said it was hard, grueling work. "But he was up to it," Collins said. "I am at times not the easiest guy to get along with, being a fishing boat's captain. But I imagine I am easy compared to what he is dealing with every day now." In Hailey, Idaho, many residents kept yellow ribbons tied around trees. It was there six years ago that Sue Martin, owner of Zaney's Coffee Shop spoke glowingly of her former barista. "Bowe is not somebody in the corner," she said. "You engage, and he engages very well." "He captures you," Martin said. Bergdahl was a seeker, a hard worker, a man raised and home-schooled in a small town, an avid outdoorsman who also did ballet. He could talk to anyone. He toured Europe before joining the Army. He also didn't care for cars, choosing to ride a bicycle to and from the odd jobs he worked to pay for his travels, friends said. And he was polite, very polite. One rainy evening the sheriff in his Idaho community stopped to offer him a ride. Bergdahl, who was drenched and walking his bike, said he wouldn't want to get the car wet, so no thanks. And he kept walking. "Kind of tells you a little bit about the person," recalled Walt Femling, who knew Bergdahl through renting him an apartment the sheriff owned. "I don't usually rent to 20-year-olds," Femling said. He trusted Bergdahl. "There's not many young people who have the kind manners he has," said neighbor Minna Casser. "He's a gentleman and a sportsman." The Bergdahl family hasn't spoken much publicly about their son. His father, Robert Bergdahl, posted a YouTube video in May 2011 and a year later he spoke at a Memorial Day event in Washington that was attended by more than 100,000 people. "Bowe, your family has not forgotten you, your hometown has not forgotten you. Your state of Idaho has not forgotten you, and thanks to all of you here today, Washington D.C. has not forgotten you," Robert Bergdahl told a cheering crowd. "We love you, we are proud of you. Stay strong, never give up. We pray for the day that we welcome you home," he said. CNN's Ed Lavandera, Paul Vercammen, Ashley Fantz and Barbara Starr contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/opinion/downey-clippers-sell-for-two-billion-ballmer/index.html	opinion	Opinion: $2 billion for the Clippers? Steve Ballmer, are you serious? - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 01:25:39 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Mike Downey is a former columnist for the Los Angeles Times and a frequent contributor to CNN. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely his. (CNN) -- Two billion dollars to buy the Los Angeles Clippers??? Come on, now. You might pay two billion to buy a Picasso but not to buy Dogs Playing Poker. You might pay two billion to buy a yacht but not the USS Minnow. You might pay two billion to buy the Los Angeles DODGERS -- and somebody not long ago did -- but not to buy Hollywood's basketball-playing comedy club. Would you? Uh, well, if your name is Steve Ballmer, and you've got money to burn, and the next goal on your bucket list is to own a basketball team, and you're the kind of guy who loves this game so much that you've even got "Ball" in your surname, $2 billion is the price you're prepared to pay, even if it means buying the Worst Franchise in the History of Professional Basketball. S-Ball, are you SURE about this? You want to bounce these numbers off your banker? Two billion ... with a B? Yep, apparently the hoop-happy Mr. Ballmer, who made much of his money by being one of the big brains at Microsoft, was in earnest when he told Shelly Sterling, semi-estranged wife of the 100% strange Donald Sterling, he would give her $2 billion for her National Basketball Association team, assuming it's for sale. Oh, and assuming it's hers to sell. Not so fast, says Mr. Sterling to Mrs. Sterling through his attorney, Maxwell Blecher, giving every indication that he intends to cling to his ownership of the Clippers by any means necessary, even if it means filing a lawsuit against the NBA for a not-exactly-peanuts ONE billion dollars. Disgraced, disgusted, dysfunctional (delusional?) Donald is deadly serious. OK, so I said some bad stuff. OK, so my "girlfriend" got me on tape, blithering and blathering about black people and do I want her to bring them to my team's basketball games and all? OK, so I had to give up that nice NAACP award they were going to give me, and that comedian Conan O'Brien went on TV and said, "Instead, they're giving him the 'Reason We Still Need an NAACP Award.' " LZ Granderson: The hypocrisy of L.A. NAACP That doesn't mean I, Don, am giving up my Clipper ship without a fight. OK, so Steve Ballmer, the ex-CEO of that Microsoft computer business, is making a whopping offer of $2 billion for my basketball guys? Well, I may not know a laptop from a lap dance, but I do not intend to bail on my Clippers just quite yet, NBA fans! You can't miss me if I don't go away! A couple billion dollars for a basketball team might not be such a shocker if that team were, say, the Los Angeles Lakers or the Boston Celtics, organizations with a long history of success, a loyal fan base and a general reputation for integrity and respectability. They are the Bentleys and Rolls-Royces of this particular market, whereas the Clippers are the Ford Pintos, the flops, the lemons, the clunkers that catch fire. Number of NBA championships for the Clippers? Zero. Number of appearances in the NBA Finals for the Clippers? Zero. Number of people you have met who said they want to see just one Clipper championship before they die? Zero. Oh, maybe Billy Crystal said something like that in his life, because (a) he is a comedian and a very funny guy, and (b) he happens to be one of the few people from Planet Hollywood who has been true-blue to the Clippers since practically the beginning, through one dog of a season after another, through thin and thin. 700 Sundays? Was that the name of Billy's hit Broadway show? Well, this poor fellow has probably sat through 700 Clipper Days, which makes him one of the most magnificent (or most masochistic) sports fans in history in my book. Some of their season records since the Clippers have been playing in L.A.: 31-51, 32-50, 12-70, 17-65, 21-61, 30-52, 31-51 ... Brief pause for a slightly better season or two, followed by: 27-55, 17-65, 29-53, 36-46, 17-75, 9-41, 15-67 ... You get the idea. It is true, amazingly, that the Clippers of late have become a much better team. They make the playoffs. They have Blake Griffin and Chris Paul. They do not trip over their own shoelaces as often as before. But $2 billion worth? No way. Opinion: Cuban is no Sterling  I used to go to Clipper games once in a while, just to break the monotony of going to Laker games all the time and seeing how GOOD basketball is played. I used to go to garden parties at Donald and Shelly Sterling's home in Beverly Hills, where we would eat and drink and have a laugh about the Bad Old Days being behind this team forever because the Clippers were about to get some newer, better players and become, you know, what's that word they like to use about other teams? Oh, yeah: Winners! And did they win? Nahhhhh. I remember the season of 1994. The Clippers lost their first 16 games. I mean, when your team's record in the standings is 0-16, you could make a case that any five tall people with tickets in the stands could beat you. Loy Vaught, one of the Clip players at that time, said one day, "I have this picture in my head of a big headline screaming, 'Worst Team Ever,' and then they have a picture of our team underneath it, and we're all sitting there smiling." You wouldn't have given two HUNDRED dollars for that team. Sterling bought them in San Diego for the nice 1982 price of $12 million and moved them to Los Angeles, where they established themselves immediately as the slowest guns in the West. I mean, some sports fans think of bad teams like the Cubs as lovable losers, but the Clippers weren't lovable, just laughable. They were regulars in Johnny Carson's and Jay Leno's monologues. They were punchlines. And still are, more because of their owner than their play on the field. Craig Ferguson, another of the late-night TV comedians, said after word of Ballmer's $2 billion offer for the Clippers got out, "Donald Sterling paid only $12 million to buy the Clippers. This deal is very uncomfortable for the former owner because it puts him in the black." Race-related jokes abound while racially insensitive remarks by the man himself got Sterling in this fix in the first place. The NBA wants him to sell the team. His own players want him to sell the team. His own wife wants him to sell the team. Just about everybody except Donald Sterling wants Donald Sterling to sell the team. This guy has all the popularity of a termite in a lumber camp. Will he sell it? Will he give in and go away? That remains to be seen, because what Sterling says and Sterling does are not the kinds of things ordinary people say and do. Offering $2 billion for a middling sports team is also something a normal person doesn't normally do. So, really, what would somebody like a Ballmer offer if, say, the New York Yankees baseball team ever did come up for sale? A trillion? OK, a trillion-one, but not a penny more. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/world/meast/afghanistan-bergdahl-aboard-helicopter/index.html	world	Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl breaks down on helicopter to freedom - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 02:30:54 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It was another day in five years of enemy captivity, and Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl didn't know what the 18 Taliban fighters were about to do to him Saturday in Afghanistan. The enemy handed him over to a visiting military, and Bergdahl boarded a helicopter that had just landed in eastern Afghanistan near the Pakistan border. The transfer of his custody was peaceful enough, according to an account of events provided by a senior U.S. Defense official. Once airborne, the chopper's rotor blades whooped so loudly that Bergdahl couldn't communicate clearly with the strangers who comprised the crew. So he grabbed a paper plate and wrote three characters: "SF?" The crew understood: Special Forces? The U.S. commandos didn't bother to write back. "Yes!" shouted at least one U.S. serviceman over the roar. "We've been looking for you for a long time!" Bergdahl broke down and wept. The helicopter was ferrying the 28-year-old soldier to freedom for the first time since Afghanistan militants captured him in June 2009.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/us/bergdahl-transferred-guantanamo-detainees/index.html	us	The Gitmo detainees swapped for Bergdahl: Who are they? - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 02:37:04 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Together with the announcement that Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl was released after nearly five years of captivity came the news that five detainees at Guantanamo Bay were being transferred to Qatar. Two senior administration officials confirmed the names of the five released detaines as Khair Ulla Said Wali Khairkhwa, Mullah Mohammad Fazl, Mullah Norullah Nori, Abdul Haq Wasiq and Mohammad Nabi Omari. CNN profiled them two years ago, when their names first surfaced as candidates for a transfer as part of talks with the Taliban, which captured Bergdahl in Afghanistan in 2009: Khair Ulla Said Wali Khairkhwa Former Afghan minister of interior during Taliban rule, governor of Herat and a military commander. Alleged to have been "directly associated" with Osama bin Laden. According to a detainee assessment, Khairkhwa was probably associated with al Qaeda's now-deceased leader in Iraq, Abu Musab al Zarqawi. He is also described as one of the "major opium drug lords in western Afghanistan" and a "friend of current Afghan President Hamid Karzai." He was arrested February 2002 in Pakistan and was transferred to Guantanamo in May 2002. During questioning, Khairkhwa denied all knowledge of extremist activities. Mullah Mohammad Fazl Deputy minister of defense under the Taliban, senior military commander who was chief of staff of the Afghan army and commander of the Taliban's 10th Division. Wanted by the U.N. in connection with the massacre of thousands of Afghan Shiites during the Taliban rule. "When asked about the murders, detainee did not express any regret," according to the detainee assessment. Alleged to have been associated with several militant Islamist groups, including al Qaeda. Surrendered in November 2001 to Northern Alliance (opponents of the Taliban). Transferred to U.S. custody in December 2001 and one of the first arrivals at Guantanamo. Assessed as having high intelligence value. Mullah Norullah Nori  Senior Taliban commander during hostilities with U.S. and allies in Mazar-e Sharif in late 2001. Taliban governor of two provinces and also implicated, according to detainee assessment, in the murder of Afghan Shiites. Nori claimed during interrogation that "he never received any weapons or military training." Surrendered in November 2001 to Northern Alliance and transferred to U.S. custody a month later. According to 2008 detainee assessment, Nori "continues to deny his role, importance and level of access to Taliban officials." Same assessment characterized him as high risk and of high intelligence value. Abdul Haq Wasiq  Formerly deputy director of Taliban intelligence. An administrative review in 2007 cited a source as saying that Wasiq was also "an al Qaeda intelligence member" and had links with members of another militant Islamist group, Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin. Wasiq claimed, according to the review, that he was arrested while trying to help the United States locate senior Taliban figures. He denied any links to militant groups. Mohammad Nabi Omari  According to the first administrative review of Omari in 2004, he was a member of the Taliban and associated with both al Qaeda and another militant group Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin. He was the Taliban's chief of communications and helped al Qaeda members to escape from Afghanistan to Pakistan. Omari acknowledged during hearings that he had worked for the Taliban but denied connections with militant groups. He also said that he had worked with a U.S. operative named Mark to try to track down Mullah Omar. CNN's Elise Labott contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/opinion/lovece-breaking-bad-dead-or-not/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Walter White, Tony Soprano and the undead - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 02:47:31 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Frank Lovece is an entertainment writer and film critic whose work has appeared in publications including Newsday, Entertainment Weekly, TV Guide and the Los Angeles Times. (CNN) -- Walter White might not have faded to black. Despite collapsing at the end of the "Breaking Bad" finale, everyone's favorite meth kingpin could still be alive -- or so star Bryan Cranston teasingly implied to CNN's Ashleigh Banfield on Thursday. "Hey, you never saw [body] bags zip up or anything," he quipped. But it gets us thinking: If comic books (and comic-book movies) teach us anything, it's that when some characters appear to die -- we're looking at you, Superman, Captain America, S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Phil Coulson -- appearances can be deceiving. We never saw body bags at the end of "The Sopranos," either; did Tony get a non-fatal heart attack from too much cannoli? Or stress? Tony had stress. What about the others? Jack Shephard on the finale of "Lost" ... Maddie on the finale of "Burn Notice" ... Xena on the finale of "Xena: Warrior Princess" ... we never saw literal or metaphoric body bags there, either. What if -- grievously but not mortally wounded, captured but not killed, sent to the land of the spirits with a round-trip ticket -- they survived? Could there be spinoffs? Movie sequels? Hey -- death be not proud, and neither am I. Let's examine some possibilities.... "Lost"  How you think it ended: On a mysterious, supernatural island, a wounded Jack Shephard (Matthew Fox) lies down on a forest floor and closes his eyes.  What really happened next: The island had been purgatory all along, and his soul now ascends to Heaven. But all is not right in God's kingdom. A mysterious plague has been killing the archangels, while leaving the seraphim and others untouched -- and only Dr. Jack Shephard has the knowledge and skills to isolate the virus, find the culprit and answer the burning question: Where do angels go when they die? "The Sopranos"  How you think it ended: The mob war over, the Soprano family is together at Holsten's diner when suddenly everything goes black. What really happened next: After awakening from his angina-attack blackout, Tony (James Gandolfini) vows to leave the business and get healthy. He slims down, grows a scruffy beard and opens a quiet little bar in Astoria, Queens, while wife Carmela (Edie Falco) becomes an ER nurse and develops a drug problem. "Burn Notice"  How you think it ended: Maddie (Sharon Gless) tells her secret-agent son Michael that she needs to blow up her house to take out some gunmen and give her grandson Charlie and his protector Jesse a chance to escape. Unfortunately, she has no remote detonator. What really happened next: Maddie realizes she'd actually been listening to Michael's voiceover narration about spy-craft and absorbing it. Using two cell phones, she whips up a remote detonator, blows up the house from a safe distance and escapes with Charlie and Jesse -- who discovers he has a thing for older women. They form a very modern family and buy a house near Michael, who finally marries Fiona, and surrogate grandpa Sam (Bruce Campbell). Wacky complications ensue. "Xena: Warrior Princess"  How you think it ended:  Xena (Lucy Lawless) sacrifices herself in battle in order to free the souls of 40,000 people. Xena's spirit appears and reassures sidekick Gabrielle (Renee O'Connor) she's at peace. What really happened next: "Xena's spirit appears" ... and she'll appear again! The partnership continues! New series: "Xena: Ghost Warrior "! "Breaking Bad"  How you think it ended:  Wounded, cancer-riddled, former drug kingpin Walter White collapses in a meth lab as police storm in. What really happened next: He was just passed out, and after struggling with cancer in prison volunteers for experimental drug therapy in exchange for clemency. The treatment works, but he can't return to his family and he's broke. Solution? Write a best-selling memoir! Called "Bad Breaks," it makes a fortune and gets optioned for a TV series. Given casting approval, he confounds the industry by choosing the goofy dad from "Malcolm in the Middle" to play him. We could go on. We bet you could, too. Few series wrap things up perfectly ("Newhart" the rare and brilliant exception). Are there other series finales where we could resurrect the dead? Let us know in the comments field. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/showbiz/washington-state-casey-kasem-daughter-visit/index.html	entertainment	Washington state judge allows Casey Kasem's daughter to visit him - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 03:13:48 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Radio icon Casey Kasem's daughter visited her father Friday evening for the first time since he was taken to Washington state two weeks ago from California in a family dispute over his care, a CNN affiliate reported. To make that visit, daughter Kerri Kasem won court approval from a Kitsap County, Washington, judge earlier in the day, CNN affiliate KING reported. A feud is ongoing between daughter Kerri Kasem and Kasem's wife, Jean, over legal authority to care for Casey Kasem, 82, who has Lewy body disease, the second most common type of progressive dementia after Alzheimer's. In early May, Casey Kasem was living in a California nursing home, Kerri Kasem said. Kerri Kasem won a California court order this month to become the temporary conservator for her ailing father, but he went missing for a few days before being found in Washington state with his wife, Kerri's stepmother. On Friday morning, a Kitsap County judge granted the daughter permission to visit her father one hour a day at a local home where Kasem and his wife are staying with close friends, the affiliate reported. "I'm not going to say anything much except that I'm happy with how the court proceedings went today," Kerri Kasem said. Jean Kasem, however, was displeased with the outcome of Friday's court proceedings and told reporters, "Shame on these children." She then played an audio recording of what sounded like a groaning man, saying the moaning came from her husband when he heard about Friday's court activity, the affiliate reported. "He's crying," Jean Kasem said. When Kerri Kasem showed up for her one-hour visit Friday evening, she and a companion were met by two security guards with motorcycles in the driveway, KING reported. One man's motorcycle vest said "Combat Veterans" on the back. There was a brief disagreement over whether Kerri Kasem's male companion would be allowed onto the house's premises, but the guard eventually admitted both of them, according to the news outlet. One hour later, Kasem wiped away tears as she left the house. She made no comment to reporters. On Friday, Kerri Kasem also won court permission to take her father to the doctor, the affiliate reported. The Washington state judge will hold another hearing June 6 on whether the California court order naming her as her father's temporary conservator would also apply in Washington state, the affiliate reported. A California court also awarded Kerri Kasem temporary durable power of attorney and health care directive and has ordered Jean Kasem to surrender Casey Kasem's passport to the daughter. The California judge also ordered that Casey Kasem can't travel anywhere without a court order until a doctor clears him. Casey Kasem's other daughter, Julie Kasem, and her husband, Dr. Jamil Aboulhosn, have said her father signed papers in 2007 giving them the power of attorney over his heath care in the event he was unable to make his own health decisions. But Julie and Kerri Kasem and their brother, Mouner Kasem, have contended since last year that Jean Kasem has prevented the three from visiting their father. Jean Kasem said in court papers last year that the three children "single-handedly and irreparably shattered" the couple's lives by deploying public demonstrations and attacks in the media, according to CNN affiliate KCBS. Kerri Kasem's temporary conservatorship over her father is in effect until June 20, when another California court hearing is scheduled on whether to make the conservatorship permanent. U.S. radio listeners knew Kasem for decades as the host of music countdown shows "American Top 40" and "Casey's Top 40." He retired in 2009. Kasem was also the voice of Shaggy in the cartoon "Scooby Doo" and an announcer for NBC.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/sport/tennis/tennis-nadal-murray-stephens-halep/index.html	iSport	Rafael Nadal untroubled but Andy Murray on the brink at French Open - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 04:09:25 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Rafael Nadal took another big step towards a ninth French Open title Saturday while one of his chief rivals in his half of the draw Andy Murray hovered on the brink of elimination before play was halted in fading light. Wimbledon champion Murray and Germany's Philipp Kohlschreiber were locked at 7-7 in the fifth and final set on Suzanne Lenglen. The British seventh seed will be ruing several lapses of concentration, seeming to have the match in his grasp when a break up in the fourth set and again in the decider. Each time Kohlschreiber, who won the Dusseldorf event last week, hit back and survived some nervous moments in the final game on his own service to keep the match alive. The pair will come back Sunday with the winner to face either home favorite Richard Gasquet or Fernando Verdasco in the fourth round. Gasquet trails Verdasco led 12th seed Gasquet by two sets and it was 2-2 in the third set when their match was also halted in the gloom. Earlier, top seed Nadal dispatched Leonardo Mayer in straight sets 6-2 7-5 6-2 and has yet to drop a set, while his Spanish compatriot David Ferrer also went through in fine style against Italy's Andreas Seppi. Ferrer is a potential quarterfinal opponent for Nadal but first the four-time defending champion must get past fast-rising Serb Dusan Lajovic. Match of the middle Saturday at Roland Garros may well have been Gael Monfils' five-set defeat of Italian 14th seed Fabio Fognini. Ever popular Monfils prevailed 6-2 in the decider after dropping the fourth to love. Halep hopes While the established order is, in the main, still on top in the men's draw, Simona Halep, a 22-year-old Romanian, is the highest surviving seed in the women's tournament. The fourth-ranked Halep was impressive again in a 6-4 6-0 win over Spain's Maria-Teresa Torro-Flor, but standing in her way for a quarterfinal place is Sloane Stephens of the United States. Stephens, 21, reached her sixth straight grand slam fourth round, the best record on the WTA Tour, with a 6-3 6-4 win over Russian Ekaterina Makarova. Stephens, who many see as a natural successor to Serena Williams, says she is more motivated at the big four events rather than regular tournaments. "I just peak at four tournaments a year. Every other tournament just gets me ready for these," she told the official French Open website. Stephens next Halep is determined to make amends for a defeat to Stephens the only time they have met. "I played her in Australia a couple of seasons ago and she beat me very fast. Now I think I'm more prepared than I was then. I have confidence I can take revenge." Former French Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova will be a representative of the "old guard" in the last 16, with the 28-year-old, a 100-1 outsider at the start of the tournament, emerging as a real threat. She battled to a 6-7 6-1 9-7 victory over Czech fifth seed Petra Kvitova, her 10th appearance in the last 16 at Roland Garros in 11 years. Ivanovic beaten She will next play Lucy Safarova, who continued the string of upsets with a 6-3 6-3 win over 2008 champion Ana Ivanovic. Only one player from the top six of the rankings, Halep, is in the last 16, with seventh seed and 2012 champion Maria Sharapova favored by many to claim a second French Open title. She will play Samantha Stosur of Australia in an eagerly-awaited fourth round clash Sunday. Second seed Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer headline the action on Philippe Chatrier with intriguing match ups against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Ernests Gulbis respectively.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/us/idaho-bowe-bergdahl-release-reaction/index.html	us	Idaho hometown of Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl celebrates, prepares homecoming - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 04:47:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The locals of Hailey, Idaho, filled Sherry Horton's wine bar and uncorked champagne Saturday in celebration of hometown hero Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl's release in Afghanistan after nearly five years in enemy captivity. "It's very exciting," said Horton, a friend and former roommate of Bergdahl. "We're all still kind of walking around on clouds. We're all just waiting to get eyes on him. That's going to be a topper." Bergdahl's parents, Jani and Bob, have been crusading online and in Washington, D.C., for years to ensure their 28-year-old son was never forgotten and assert he was an America POW held by the Taliban, though the military categorized him as a missing soldier captured. Whatever the term, Bergdahl is no longer being held. "His mother was crying when she answered the phone -- and just very excited," Horton told CNN's Dana Bash. The parents released a short statement. "Today, we are ecstatic!" the couple said. "We were so joyful and relieved when President Obama called us today to give us the news that Bowe is finally coming home! We cannot wait to wrap our arms around our only son," the parents said. The Rocky Mountain town of Hailey is just minutes from the renowned tourist destination of Sun Valley, famed for its skiing. Residents didn't have to worry Saturday about adorning Hailey with yellow ribbons because local scouts just put up fresh ones the past week, Horton said. The hometown crowd was laboring Saturday, however, to erect signs welcoming Bergdahl home, Horton said. "Everybody is celebrating." The end of Bergdahl's half decade of captivity resonated beyond the valley town. "We join all of Idaho and America in expressing our joy and welcoming this wonderful news," Gov. C.L. "Butch" Otter said in a statement. "Today, Idaho gives thanks. Soon we all will celebrate Bowe's freedom and homecoming." U.S. Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada, the top Senate Democrat, described the moment as "a great day for the United States" and Bergdahl's safe return marks the "nation's commitment to leave no service member behind." "I commend the diplomats, service members, and others who worked tirelessly to bring Sergeant Bergdahl home, and I commend President Obama for taking decisive action to achieve the agreement leading to his release when the opportunity arose," Reid said. Secretary of State John Kerry said the "cost of years of captivity to Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl and his family is immeasurable." Not everyone was thoroughly jubilant. U.S. Rep. Mike Rogers, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said he was pleased about Bergdahl's release but he was "extremely troubled" by how the United States negotiated with the Taliban to release Bergdahl in exchange for five detainees at Guantanamo Bay. "This fundamental shift in US policy signals to terrorists around the world a greater incentive to take U.S. hostages," said Rogers, R-Michigan. "Further, I have little confidence in the security assurances regarding the movement and activities of the now released Taliban leaders and I have even less confidence in this Administration's willingness to ensure they are enforced. I believe this decision will threaten the lives of American soldiers for years to come."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/sport/golf/golf-mickelson-fbi-bubba-scott/index.html	iSport	Phil Mickelson: I have done nothing wrong - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 05:10:52 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Five-time major champion Phil Mickelson denied involvement in an alleged insider trading fraud Saturday, saying he is fully co-operating with FBI agents. Mickelson, who is playing in the Memorial tournament in Ohio, spoke to gathered reporters after a third round 72 to leave him way off the pace on two-under 214. "I have done absolutely nothing wrong," said the 43-year-old American. "That's why I'm fully cooperating with the FBI agents and will continue to do so. His comments mirrored an earlier statement released Saturday to CNN by his agent. "I wish I could fully discuss this matter, but under the current circumstances it's just not possible," he added. The FBI probe is examining stock trades by Mickelson, investor Carl Icahn and a well-known Las Vegas gambler, Billy Walters, law enforcement sources told CNN. Read: CNN Money: Mickelson under investigation It centers around trades made three years ago after Icahn made an investment in Clorox (CLX, Fortune 500), according to the sources, who are not authorized to speak publicly about the case. Icahn bought shares in Clorox and later announced a takeover bid for the company, causing shares to rise significantly. According to reports in the Wall Street Journal and New York Times, the FBI and the Securities and Exchange Commission are investigating whether Icahn tipped off Walters and Mickelson about the investment plans. Mickelson said FBI agents had approached him after his first round Thursday, but he had decided to continue playing in the final warm-up event before the U.S. Open at Pinehurst later this month. "I've got no problem cooperating," said Mickelson. "I have been cooperating in every way I can," he added. Mickelson is one of the most popular golfers in the world and he was acclaimed after his superb victory last year at the British Open. Only a victory in the U.S. Open eludes him to complete his set of the four majors, but he has been in indifferent form in 2014 without a top 10 finish on the PGA Tour..   
http://www.cnn.com/2013/07/19/us/death-penalty-fast-facts/index.html	us	Death Penalty Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/07/19	Friday Jul 19 01:46:53 EDT 2013	Editor's note: CNN's original series "Death Row Stories" explores America's capital punishment system Sundays at 9 p.m. ET/PT beginning July 13 on CNN. Join the conversation about the death penalty at facebook.com/cnn or Twitter @CNNorigSeries using #DeathRowStories. (CNN) -- Here's a look at what you need to know about the death penalty in the United States. Facts:  Capital punishment is legal in 32 U.S. states. Approximately 3,088 inmates in 35 states are awaiting execution. Connecticut, Maryland and New Mexico have abolished the death penalty, but it is not retroactive. Prisoners on death row in those states will still be executed. Since 1976, when the death penalty was reinstated by the U.S. Supreme Court, 1,373 people have been executed. (as of May 2014) Japan is the only industrial democracy besides the United States that has the death penalty. Federal Government:  The U.S. government and U.S. military have approximately 60 people awaiting execution. (as of May 2014) The U.S. government has executed three people since 1976. (as of May 2014) Females:  There are approximately 61 women on death row in the United States. (as of May 2014) Fourteen women have been executed since the reinstatement of the death penalty in 1976. (as of May 2014) Juveniles:  March 1, 2005 - Roper v. Simmons. The Supreme Court rules that the execution of juveniles is unconstitutional. This means that 16 and 17-year-olds are ineligible for execution. Twenty-two juveniles between the ages of 16 and 17 were executed between 1976 and 2005. Clemency:  Clemency Processes around the Country 274 clemencies have been granted in the United States since 1976. For federal death row inmates, the president alone has the power to grant a pardon. Timeline:  1834 - Pennsylvania becomes the first state to move executions into correctional facilities, ending public executions. 1838 - Discretionary death penalty statutes are enacted in Tennessee. 1846 - Michigan becomes the first state to abolish the death penalty for all crimes except treason. 1890 - William Kemmler becomes the first person executed by electrocution. 1907-1917 - Nine states abolish the death penalty for all crimes or strictly limit it. By 1920, five of those states had reinstated it. 1924 - The use of cyanide gas is introduced as an execution method. 1930s - Executions reach the highest levels in American history, averaging 167 per year. June 29, 1972 - Furman v. Georgia. The Supreme Court effectively voids 40 death penalty statutes and suspends the death penalty. 1976 - Gregg v. Georgia. The death penalty is reinstated. January 17, 1977 - A ten-year moratorium on executions ends with the execution of Gary Gilmore by firing squad in Utah. 1977 - Oklahoma becomes the first state to adopt lethal injection as a means of execution. December 7, 1982 - Charles Brooks becomes the first person executed by lethal injection. 1984 - Velma Barfield of North Carolina becomes the first woman executed since reinstatement of the death penalty. 1986 - Ford v. Wainwright. Execution of insane persons is banned. 1987 - McCleskey v. Kemp. Racial disparities are not recognized as a constitutional violation of "equal protection of the law" unless intentional racial discrimination against the defendant can be shown. 1988 - Thompson v. Oklahoma. Executions of offenders age 15 and younger at the time of their crimes are declared unconstitutional. 1989 - Stanford v. Kentucky, and Wilkins v. Missouri. The Eighth Amendment does not prohibit the death penalty for crimes committed at age sixteen or seventeen. 1994 - President Bill Clinton signs the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act that expands the federal death penalty. 1996 - Execution by firing squad is used for the last time in Utah. The last hanging takes place in Delaware. January 31, 2000 - A moratorium on executions is declared by Illinois Governor George Ryan. Since 1976, Illinois is the first state to block executions. 2002 - Atkins v. Virginia. The Supreme Court rules that the execution of mentally retarded defendants violates the Eighth Amendment's ban on cruel and unusual punishment. January 2003 - Before leaving office, Governor George Ryan grants clemency to all of the remaining 167 inmates on Illinois's death row, due to the flawed process that led to the death sentences. June 2004 - New York's death penalty law is declared unconstitutional by the state's high court. March 1, 2005 - Roper v. Simmons. The Supreme Court rules that the execution of juvenile killers is unconstitutional. The 5-4 decision tosses out the death sentence of a Missouri man who was 17-years-old when he murdered a St. Louis area woman in 1993. December 2, 2005 - The execution of Kenneth Lee Boyd in North Carolina marks the 1,000th time the death penalty has been carried out since it was reinstated by the Supreme Court in 1976. Boyd, 57, is executed for the 1988 murders of his wife, Julie Curry Boyd, and father-in-law, Thomas Dillard Curry. June 12, 2006 - The Supreme Court rules that death row inmates can challenge the use of lethal injection as a method of execution. December 15, 2006 - Florida Governor Jeb Bush suspends the death penalty after the execution of prisoner Angel Diaz. Diaz had to be given two injections, and it took more than 30 minutes for him to die. December 15, 2006 - Judge Jeremy Fogel of the U.S. District Court in San Jose rules that lethal injection in California violates the constitutional prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment. December 17, 2007 - Governor Jon Corzine signs legislation banning the death penalty in New Jersey. The death sentences of eight men are commuted to life terms. September 2007 - The U.S. Supreme Court takes up the case of Baze and Bowling v. Rees, in which two Kentucky death row inmates challenged Kentucky's use of a three-drug mixture for death by lethal injection. December 31, 2007 - Due to the de facto moratorium on executions, pending the Supreme Court's ruling, only 42 people in the U.S. are executed in 2007. It is the lowest total in more than 10 years. April 14, 2008 - In a 7-2 ruling, the Supreme Court upholds Kentucky's use of lethal injection. Between September 2007, when the Court took on the case, and April 2008 no one was executed in the U.S. March 18, 2009 - Governor Bill Richardson of New Mexico signs legislation repealing the death penalty in his state. His actions will not affect two prisoners currently on death row, Robert Fry, who killed a woman in 2000, and Tim Allen, who killed a 17-year-old girl in 1994. November 13, 2009 - Ohio becomes the first state to switch to a method of lethal injection using a single drug, rather than the three-drug method used by other states. March 9, 2011 - Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn announces that he has signed legislation eliminating the death penalty in his state, more than 10 years after the state halted executions. March 16, 2011 - The Drug Enforcement Agency seizes Georgia's supply of thiopental, over questions of where the state obtained the drug. U.S. manufacturer Hospira stopped producing the drug in 2009. The countries that still produce the drug do not allow it to be exported to the U.S. for use in lethal injections. May 20, 2011 - The Georgia Department of Corrections announces that pentobarbital will be substituted for sodium thiopental in the three-drug lethal injection process. July 2011 - Lundbeck Inc., the company that makes pentobarbital (brand name Nembutal), the drug used in lethal injections, announces it will restrict the use of its product from prisons carrying out capital punishment. "After much consideration, we have determined that a restricted distribution system is the most meaningful means through which we can restrict the misuse of Nembutal. While the company has never sold the product directly to prisons and therefore can't make guarantees, we are confident that our new distribution program will play a substantial role in restricting prisons' access to Nembutal for misuse as part of lethal injection." Lundbeck also states that it "adamantly opposes the distressing misuse of our product in capital punishment." July 7, 2011 - Humberto Leal Garcia, Jr., a Mexican national, is executed by lethal injection, in Texas for the 1994 kidnap, rape and murder of Adra Sauceda in San Antonio. Despite pleas from the U.S. State Department and the White House, Texas Governor Rick Perry does not grant clemency and the U.S. Supreme Court does not intervene. November 22, 2011 - Governor John Kitzhaber of Oregon grants a reprieve to Gary Haugen, who was scheduled to be executed December 6. Kitzhaber, a licensed physician, also puts a moratorium on all state executions for the remainder of his term in office.  April 25, 2012 - Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy signs S.B. 280, An Act Revising the Penalty for Capital Felonies, into law. The law goes into effect immediately and replaces the death penalty with life without the possibility of parole. The law is not retroactive to those already on death row. June 22, 2012 - The Arkansas Supreme Court strikes down the state's execution law, calling the form of lethal injection the state uses unconstitutional. August 7, 2012 - The Supreme Court allows the execution of Marvin Wilson, 54, a Texas inmate with low IQ. November 6, 2012 - A measure to repeal the death penalty in California fails. May 2, 2013 - Maryland's governor signs a bill repealing the death penalty. The legislation goes into effect October 1. June 26, 2013 - Texas executes its 500th prisoner since 1982, Kimberly McCarthy, for the 1997 murder of Dorothy Booth. McCarthy is the first female executed in the U.S. since 2010. November 20, 2013 - Missouri executes white supremacist serial killer Joseph Paul Franklin for the 1977 murder of Gerald Gordon. He was blamed for 22 killings between 1977 and 1980. January 16, 2014 - Ohio executes inmate Dennis McGuire with a new combination of drugs, due to the unavailability of drugs such as pentobarbital. The state used a combination of the drugs midazolam, a sedative, and the painkiller hydromorphone, according to the state corrections department. According to witness Alan Johnson of the Columbus Dispatch, the whole execution process took 24 minutes, and McGuire appeared to be gasping for air for 10 to 13 minutes. February 11, 2014 - Washington Gov. Jay Inslee announces that he is issuing a moratorium on death penalty cases during his term in office. May 22, 2014 - Tennessee becomes the first state to make death by electric chair mandatory when lethal injection drugs are unavailable. May 28, 2014 - A judge in Ohio issues an order temporarily suspending executions in the state so that authorities can further study new lethal injection protocols.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/15/us/gabrielle-giffords-fast-facts/index.html	us	Gabrielle Giffords Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/05/15	Wednesday May 15 07:48:59 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at the life of Gabrielle Giffords, U.S. Representative from Arizona 2007 to 2012. Personal:  Birth date: June 8, 1970 Birth place: Tucson, Arizona Birth name: Gabrielle Dee Giffords Father: Spencer Giffords, El Campo Tire executive and a district school board member Mother: Gloria Kay (Fraser) Giffords, an author and art conservator Marriage: Mark Edward Kelly (November 10, 2007-present) Education: Scripps College, B.A., 1993; Cornell University, Masters in Regional Planning, 1996 Other Facts:  Her husband, Mark Kelly, is a retired astronaut and was the commander of the final flight of the Space Shuttle Endeavour. Studied abroad in Chihuahua, Mexico, on a Fulbright Scholarship. Youngest woman elected to the Arizona State Senate. Third woman from Arizona to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. First Jewish congresswoman from Arizona. Timeline:  2000 - Sells her family's tire business, El Campo Tire Warehouses, to Goodyear Tire. 2000 - Is elected to the Arizona House of Representatives. 2002 - Is elected to the Arizona State Senate. 2004 - Wins re-election to the Arizona Senate. December 2005 - Resigns from office to run for the U.S. House of Representatives. November 7, 2006 - Is elected to the U.S. House of Representatives with 54 percent of the vote. 2007-January 25, 2012 - Democratic U.S. Representative from Arizona's 8th District. 2008 - Is elected for a second term in the U.S. House of Representatives with 55 percent of the vote. 2010 - Is elected for a third term in the U.S. House of Representatives in a close race, by about 4,000 votes. January 8, 2011 - Giffords is shot in the head, one of 13 wounded by Jared Lee Loughner at a "Congress on Your Corner" event at a Tucson grocery store. Six people are killed during the shooting rampage. Authorities say Giffords was the main target. January 16, 2011 - Her medical condition is changed from critical to serious following the removal of a breathing tube. A tracheotomy tube is put in its place. January 20, 2011 - Giffords is able to stand with assistance; she makes attempts at speech and is taken outside in a wheelchair for fresh air. January 21, 2011 - Is moved from the University Medical Center in Tucson to Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center in Houston, Texas. January 26, 2011 - Is transferred to the nearby Institute for Rehabilitation and Research Memorial Hermann (TIRR Memorial Hermann), the day after doctors upgrade her condition from serious to good. April 25, 2011 - Doctors announce that Giffords has recovered enough to travel to Florida to attend the final lift-off April 29 of the Space Shuttle Endeavour, of which her husband, Capt. Mark Kelly, is the commander. She is able to use her left side, has limited use of her right arm and leg, and has begun walking a little. May 16, 2011 - Giffords attends the rescheduled launch of Space Shuttle Endeavour at the Kennedy Space Center. June 12, 2011 - First post-shooting photos of Gifford are posted to her Facebook page. The photos are of Gifford smiling on May 17, 2011. June 15, 2011 - Is discharged from Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center. August 1, 2011 - Returns to the floor of the House of Representatives to vote in support of a plan to raise the U.S. debt ceiling. November 14, 2011 - Appears on ABC News in her first television interview since the shooting. November 15, 2011 - The memoir Rep. Giffords and her husband Mark Kelly wrote together, "Gabby: A Story of Courage and Hope," is released. In the audio book version, Rep. Giffords reads aloud the final chapter. January 8, 2012 - Rep. Gabrielle Giffords attends a vigil in Tucson marking the one-year anniversary of the shooting. She leads the crowd of thousands in the Pledge of Allegiance and later lights a memorial candle for the six people killed. January 22, 2012 - Announces via her website, she will resign from the U.S. House of Representatives to concentrate on her health and recuperation. January 25, 2012 - Officially resigns from the U.S. House of Representatives. February 10, 2012 - Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus announces that the next Independence variant littoral combat ship (LCS) will be named USS Gabrielle Giffords. February 10, 2012 - Giffords' final piece of legislation, the Ultralight Aircraft Smuggling Prevention Act of 2012, is signed into law by President Barack Obama. February 21, 2012 - Named to the National Board of Advisors for the National Institute for Civil Discourse at the University of Arizona. June 9, 2012 - Giffords appears at a get-out-the-vote rally at the Rialto Theater in Tucson to campaign for Ron Barber, her former aide who is running for her congressional seat. November 8, 2012 - Along with husband Mark Kelly attends the sentencing hearing for Jared Lee Loughner, the man who shot her. Kelly testifies on Giffords' behalf saying, "Mr. Loughner, you may have put a bullet through her head but you have not put a dent in her spirit and her ability to do good." January 8, 2013 - Giffords and her husband launch the website, Americans for Responsible Solutions. It addresses gun violence prevention and gun owner responsibility. January 30, 2013 - Giffords and her husband Mark Kelly appear before the Senate Judiciary Committee to make a statement about gun violence in the United States. February 11, 2013 - Giffords appears in the gun legislation advertisement, "Let's Get this Done," scheduled to run this week on television and online.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/09/09/world/guantanamo-bay-naval-station-fast-facts/index.html	world	Guantanamo Bay Naval Station Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/09/09	Monday Sep 9 03:49:50 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at what you need to know about Guantnamo Bay Naval Station and its detention facilities. Facts:  The base, sometime referred to as "Gitmo," is located in southeastern Cuba, on the coast of Guantnamo Bay. The U.S. has been leasing the 45 square miles that the base sits on since 1903. The base shares a 17-mile border with Cuba. The U.S. pays the Cuban government approximately $4,085 a year for the lease. The last time time Cuba accepted the payment was in 1959. The lease can only be terminated by mutual agreement. Approximately 6,000 service members, civilians and contractors work at the base. Detention Facilities:  In response to the 9/11 attacks in 2001, and subsequent military operations in Afghanistan, existing migrant detention facilities at Guantnamo were re-purposed to hold detainees in the "war on terror."  During the administration of President George W. Bush (2001-2009), the U.S. claimed that Guantnamo Bay detainees were not on U.S. soil and therefore not covered by the U.S. constitution, and that "enemy combatant" status meant they could be denied some legal protections. Shortly after his inauguration in 2009, President Barack Obama signed an executive order to close the detention facilities within one year. However, the facilities are still open as of 2014. There are 154 detainees at Guantnamo Bay as of May 2014. The number of detainees held at Guantnamo since it opened exceeds 750. At least seven detainees have died in custody. It costs the U.S. Defense Department about $150 million a year to run the detention facilities. Timeline:  1903 - The new Republic of Cuba leases 45 square miles of land in Guantnamo Bay to the U.S. for construction of a naval station. Building on the naval station begins that same year. 1934 - Cuba and the U.S. sign a perpetual lease that rents the 45 square miles of Cuba to the U.S. for $4,085.00 a year. 1991 - Approximately 34,000 Haitian refugees are detained on the base after they flee a coup in Haiti. 1994-1995 - More than 55,000 Cubans and Haitians captured at sea are kept at Guantnamo. January 11, 2002 - The first detainees from Afghanistan and Pakistan arrive at the temporary facility of Camp X-Ray. June 28, 2004 - A divided Supreme Court rules that the Guantnamo detainees have some rights but leaves open how these rights will be exercised. January 18, 2005 - The Supreme Court refuses to consider whether the government's plan for military trials unfairly denies the detainees basic legal rights. July 13, 2005 - A report presented to the Senate Armed Services details the interrogation of the suspected "20th hijacker" in the 9/11 attacks, Mohamed al-Khatani. He was forced to wear a bra, dance with a man and do dog tricks while tied to a leash. But military investigators said but that was not considered prohibited, inhumane treatment.  April 19, 2006 - Following a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit by the Associated Press, the Pentagon releases the most detailed and extensive list of detainees ever provided. It provides the names and nationalities of 558 detainees who've gone through a hearing at Guantnamo Bay. May 15, 2006 - The Defense Department releases another list of current and former detainees to the AP. It says this list of 759 names includes everyone who has ever been held at Gitmo, since 2001. The list did not include the names of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or Ramzi bin al Shibh. June 10, 2006 - Three detainees, Ali Abdullah Ahmed, Mani al-Habardi al- Utaybi, and Yassar Talal al-Zahrani are found dead in their cells by guards after apparently committing suicide. June 29, 2006 - The Supreme Court strongly limits the power of the U.S government to conduct military tribunals for suspected terrorists imprisoned at Guantnamo Bay. The 5-3 ruling effectively means officials will either have to come up with new procedures to prosecute at least 10 "enemy combatants" awaiting trial, or release them from military custody. September 6, 2006 - President George W. Bush acknowledges that the CIA has held suspected terrorists in secret prisons overseas. He announces the transfer of 14 captured al Qaeda operatives, including Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Ramzi bin al Shibh, and Abu Zubaydah, to Gitmo. January 9, 2007 - Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Alexander Downer says that he expects Australian citizen David Hicks to be charged "within a matter of weeks". Hicks has been detained without charges at Guantnamo Bay since January 12, 2002. March 12, 2007 - Walid Muhammad Salih bin Attash, a detainee at Guantnamo Bay, Cuba, admits to helping orchestrate the bombings of the U.S. embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, in 1998 and the USS Cole in Yemen in 2000. March 15, 2007 - During a military hearing, a transcript of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed confessing to being the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks is released. May 30, 2007 - A Saudi detainee is found dead from an apparent suicide. June 5, 2008 - Alleged 9/11 conspirators Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Ramzi bin al Shibh, Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali, Walid bin Attash and Mustafa Ahmed al-Hawsawi are arraigned. June 12, 2008 - The U.S. Supreme Court rules 5-4 that detainees have a constitutional right to challenge their detentions. July 21, 2008 - Salim Hamdan pleads not guilty at the opening of the first war crimes trial at Guantnamo Bay, Cuba. He's charged with transporting Osama Bin Laden and some missiles in connection with terrorist activity. August 6, 2008 - Salim Hamdan is found guilty of five counts of material support to a terror organization. He is later sentenced to five years and six months in prison. December 7, 2008 - Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Ramzi bin al Shibh, Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali, Walid bin Attash and Mustafa Ahmed al-Hawsawi tell a judge that they want to make a full confession. January 20, 2009 - On his inauguration day, President Barack Obama directs Defense Secretary Robert Gates to ask prosecutors to seek stays for 120 days so terrorism cases at Guantnamo can be reviewed. January 22, 2009 - President Barack Obama signs an executive order to close Guantnamo Bay within a year. November 13, 2009 - Attorney General Eric Holder announces that five detainees, accused of complicity in the September 11th attacks, will be transferred to New York City to stand trial in a civilian court. They are: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Ramzi bin al Shibh, Walid bin Attash, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali and Mustafa Ahmed al-Hawsawi. Five other detainees will be transferred to the U.S. and have their cases heard before military commissions. They are: Omar Khadr, Mohammed Kamin, Ibrahim al Qosi, Noor Uthman Muhammed and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri. November 18, 2009 - President Obama announces that the Guantnamo Bay detention center will not be closed by January 22, 2010, due to difficulties in relocating the prisoners. December 15, 2009 - The Obama administration announces that between 70-100 detainees will be moved to an empty prison in Thomson, Illinois. October 25, 2010 - Guantnamo Bay detainee Omar Khadr pleads guilty to all charges against him. Khadr is sentenced to 40 years in prison but will serve eight years as part of his plea agreement. February 2011 - Detainee Awal Gul collapses and dies of an apparent heart attack after exercising. March 7, 2011 - President Obama announces that the U.S. will resume the use of military commissions to prosecute detainees at Guantnamo Bay. April 4, 2011 - Attorney General Eric Holder announces that five detainees will face a military trial at Guantnamo Bay. April 24, 2011 - Nearly 800 classified U.S. military documents obtained by WikiLeaks reveal details about the alleged terrorist activities of al Qaeda operatives captured and housed at the U.S. Navy's detention facility in Guantnamo Bay, Cuba. Included are intelligence assessments of nearly every one of the 779 individuals who have been held at Guantnamo since 2002, according to the Washington Post. May 18, 2011 - A detainee identified as Inayatullah (aka Hajji Nassim) commits suicide in his cell. September 8, 2012 - A detainee is found dead in his cell. U.S. Southern Command later identifies him as Adnan Farhan Abdul Latif, 32, of Yemen. March 25, 2013 - U.S. military spokesman Robert Durand announces that 28 of the 166 prisoners detained at Guantnamo Bay are on hunger strikes. Ten of the detainees are being force-fed, according to Durand. April 13, 2013 - Detainees wielding "improvised weapons" clash with guards. Guards respond by firing "four less-than-lethal rounds," according to Joint Task Force Guantnamo. April 22, 2013 - U.S. spokesman Lt. Col. Todd Breasseale say that 84 detainees are currently on hunger strikes, more than half of the 166 people being held. May 16, 2013 - Army Lt. Col. Samuel House announces that 102 of the 166 detainees are on hunger strikes, with 30 being fed by tubes. Three have been hospitalized. May 23, 2013 - In a speech at the National Defense University, President Obama calls on Congress to close the detention center at Guantnamo Bay by saying, "Given my administration's relentless pursuit of al Qaeda's leadership, there is no justification beyond politics for Congress to prevent us from closing a facility that should never have been opened." June 6, 2013 - U.S. spokesman Capt. Robert Durand says that 103 detainees remain on hunger strikes, with 41 being force fed. September 2013 - The Office of the Director of National Intelligence releases a report, saying that some former detainees are returning to terrorist activity after being released. The study says that of the 603 detainees who've been released, 100 of them have resumed fighting against the U.S. December 31, 2013 - The final three ethnic Chinese Uyghur detainess at Guantnamo Bay are transferred to Slovakia. February 2014 - Detainee Fawzi Odah files a lawsuit relating to the upcoming completion of U.S. combat operations in Afghanistan. His lawyers argue that to hold detainees after the end of active hostilities is a violation of the Geneva Conventions. May 22, 2014 - U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler lifts a temporary restraining order that had stopped the force feeding of detainee Abu Wa'el Dhiab. Kessler rules that he must be forcibly fed because of the "very real probability that Mr. Dhiab will die." May 29, 2014 - Detainee Ghaleb Nassar al Bihani, held since December 2001, is cleared for release.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/06/03/us/boston-marathon-terror-attack-fast-facts/index.html	us	Boston Marathon Terror Attack Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/06/03	Monday Jun 3 02:29:17 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here is a look at what you need to know about the Boston Marathon terror attack. On April 15, 2013, double bombings near the finish line of the Boston Marathon killed three people and injured at least 264. Facts:  The bombs exploded 12 seconds apart near the marathon's finish line on Boylston Street. According to Richard DesLauriers, the special agent in charge of the FBI's Boston office, the bombs contained BB-like pellets and nails. The bombs were contained in pressure cookers, hidden inside backpacks, according to the FBI. The Department of Homeland Security issued a warning in 2004 about pressure cooker bombs. Instructions for making this type of explosive are widely available on the Internet. Victims:  Martin Richard, 8, a student at Neighborhood House Charter School in Boston. Krystle Campbell, 29, of Medford, Massachusetts. Lingzi Lu, a graduate student at Boston University. She was originally from China. Timeline:   April 15, 2013 - At approximately 2:50 pm, two bombs explode near the finish line of the Boston Marathon. The bombs explode within 8-12 seconds of each other, about 50-100 yards apart. At 6:10 pm, President Barack Obama speaks to reporters at the White House, "We will find out who did this. We'll find out why they did this. Any responsible individuals, any responsible groups, will feel the full weight of justice." April 16, 2013 - President Obama, speaking at the White House at 11:30 a.m., describes the bombings as an act of terrorism. Frederic Wittman, chairman of the board of trustees of the Neighborhood House Charter School in Boston, confirms that one of the people killed is 8-year-old Martin Richard. Richard's sister and mother are hospitalized with serious injuries. Michael McGlynn, mayor of Medford, Massachusetts confirms that one of the people killed in the attack is 29-year-old Krystle Campbell. Boston University and the Chinese consulate in New York confirm that the third victim is a female graduate student from China. At the request of her parents, her name is not released at that time. Officials confirm that there were only two bombs, despite earlier reports that other unexploded devices had been found. Authorities including bomb experts search an apartment in Revere, Massachusetts, and remove items. Officials caution that there are no clear suspects and the motive remains unknown. April 17, 2013 - A federal law enforcement official tells CNN that the lid to a pressure cooker thought to have been used in the bombings has been found on a rooftop at the scene. The name of the third victim is released by Boston University: Lingzi Lu, a graduate student studying math and statistics. Purported miscommunications between government officials lead several news organizations, including CNN, to report prematurely that a suspect has been arrested and is in custody. April 18, 2013 - President Obama attends an interfaith memorial service inside the Cathedral of the Holy Cross. About 2,000 people fill the cathedral, The Boston Globe reports, with about half the seats reserved for the public. The audience also includes scores of police officers and other first responders. Attorney Kenneth Feinberg, considered the world's foremost expert on victim compensation, is announced as the administrator of The One Fund Boston, a fund to assist individuals affected by the attacks. At a press conference, the FBI releases pictures of two male suspects they are seeking in connection with the bombings. Late in the evening, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer named Sean Collier is shot and killed on campus, allegedly by the bombing suspects. April 19, 2013 - In the early morning hours, the suspected bombers allegedly hijack a car in Cambridge. The driver is released about 30 minutes later. As the police chase the suspects, the car's occupants throw explosives out the windows and exchange gunfire with officers. One of the suspected bombers is apprehended, but authorities say the other suspect retrieves a vehicle and runs over him as police attempt to handcuff him. The suspect is wounded and later dies at Beth Israel Hospital. He had bullet wounds and injuries from an explosion according to officials. Boston police identify the bombing suspects as 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev and 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, brothers from Cambridge, Massachusetts. They are of Chechen origin and legally immigrated to the U.S. at different times. Tamerlan Tsarnaev has been identified as the person killed in the encounter with police earlier in the morning, while Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a student at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth, remains at large. Throughout the day, hundreds of law enforcement officers go door-to-door on 20 streets in Watertown, looking for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who authorities believe is still in Massachusetts. Boston-area residents are asked by authorities to stay inside as the hunt continues for the suspect. Between 6 and 7 pm, Watertown resident David Henneberry goes out for air and to inspect his boat soon after the lockdown is lifted, and sees, "a man covered with blood under a tarp." 8:15 pm - Authorities announce they have a person they believe to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev cornered on a boat in a yard in Watertown, Massachusetts. At some point, law enforcement agents are able to seize the suspect. He is transported to a local hospital in serious condition. April 20, 2013 - A Justice Department official tells CNN that federal terrorism charges against Boston Marathon bombings suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev could be filed soon, even as he remains hospitalized. The 19-year-old could also face murder charges at the state level. There is no death penalty in Massachusetts, but Tsarnaev could face that punishment at the federal level. April 22, 2013 - Tsarnaev is charged by the U.S. government with one count of using and conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction resulting in death and one count of malicious destruction of property by means of an explosive device resulting in death. May 1, 2013 - Three 19-year-olds are arrested in connection with the bombings. The three men are accused of helping bombing suspect, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev after the bombing. Federal prosecutors say Azamat Tazhayakov, Dias Kadyrbayev, and Robel Phillipos took items from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombing to throw investigators off their friend's trail. Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev are foreign nationals charged with obstruction of justice, they were both initially held on unrelated visa issues. Phillipos is an American citizen and is charged with lying to federal agents. May 2, 2013 - The body of Tamerlan Tsarnaev is claimed, and is picked up by a funeral home, according to Terrel Harris, spokesman for the Massachusetts Office of the Chief Medical Examiner. May 6, 2013 - Robel Phillipos is released into his mother's custody on $100,000 bail. May 9, 2013 - Tamerlan Tsarnaev is buried in a Muslim cemetery in Doswell, Virginia. This is after cemeteries in Massachusetts and elsewhere refuse to allow his burial. May 22, 2013 - An FBI agent shoots and kills Ibragim Todashev in Orlando, Florida while questioning him about his relationship with Tamerlan Tsarnaev after cell phone records connect the two. Todashev tells the agent that Tsarnaev participated in a 2011 gruesome triple homicide that was drug related. The confrontation between the FBI agent and Todashev turns violent after Todashev lunges at the agent with a weapon, according to a law enforcement source. July 10, 2013 - Dzhokhar Tsarnaev pleads not guilty to 30 federal charges related to the April attacks July 18, 2013 - In response to a Rolling Stone magazine cover, Police Sgt. Sean Murphy releases photos of a bloody Dzhokhar Tsarnaev from the day of his capture. August 13, 2013 - Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov plead not guilty to conspiracy to obstruct justice and obstructing justice with intent to impede authorities. August 19, 2013 - The testimony of the trauma surgeon who treated Tsarnaev is unsealed, revealing the extent of his wounds, including multiple gun shot wounds that pierced the base of his skull, mouth and vertebrae. Unsealed documents also reveal that Tsarnaev was not read his Miranda rights until three days after he was detained. September 13, 2013 - Robel Phillipos pleads not guiltyto making false statements to federal officials, and Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov reenter their not guilty pleas. Tamerlan Tsarneav's in-laws appear before a federal grand jury in Boston. Details of the four-hour session are not immediately released. October 21, 2013 - In a court document, prosecutors in the Boston Marathon bombing case publicly confirm that deceased suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev was accused of participating in a gruesome 2011 triple homicide outside Boston. January 30, 2014 - A notice is filed with a federal court after U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder says that federal prosecutors will seek the death penalty against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. May 30, 2014 - Authorities arrest Khairullozhon Matanov of Quincy, Massachusetts and charge him with "one count of destroying, altering, and falsifying records, documents, and tangible objects in a federal investigation, specifically information on his computer, and three counts of making materially false, fictitious, and fraudulent statements in a federal terrorism investigation." Allegedly, Matanov was a friend of the Tsarnaev brothers and ate dinner with them after the bombing. Upcoming Events:  November 3, 2014 - Scheduled date of trial for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/opinion/johnson-lost-job-shinseki/index.html	opinion	Opinion: I lost my high-profile federal job, too. It sucked - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 06:29:10 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Martha Johnson is the former administrator of the General Services Administration who resigned amid an excessive government spending scandal in 2012. She is also the author of "On My Watch: Leadership, Innovation, and Personal Resilience." The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- It is as if the air suddenly disappears from the room. That is how it feels to lose a big job, one that offers a chance to make a real difference. Secretary Eric Shinseki resigned Friday as the leader of our nation's Department of Veteran's Affairs amid a scandal about wait times at VA hospitals. I would never presume to know or imagine his personal frame of mind or feelings right now, but I know a bit about such experiences. In 2012, I abruptly resigned as the administrator of the General Services Administration in the swirl of a scandal around excessive spending at the "Western Regions" training conference, as well as dealings with contractors. The ensuing uproar was textbook: anxious White House meetings, a scornful media, a pouncing Congress and bad optics fueled by silly YouTube videos. It is not an experience that anyone would want to experience ... or repeat. I was personally caught in a web of emotions. My seven-year relationship with the people of GSA was suddenly severed and that saddened me deeply. I was troubled by the crude and, yes, bullying politics. Anxiety swept over me about my finances and prospects. My elderly father was deeply upset and needed attention. Mostly, however, I grieved for the work that I had not completed. I believe in the efficacy of work, its ability to give meaning and to offer a central vitality to life. To lose my work was utterly painful. Being a part of a presidential administration was not just an honor to me, it was a real chance to change the world. The resources are huge; the reach and possibilities are vast. My hope had been to impact and improve how the government performed -- how it used technology, saved energy, collaborated, improved the work environment for public servants, rebuilt trust, and more. Instead, I found myself suddenly sitting in my house looking at the dust on the furniture. However, it was not quiet for long. A lot comes into play in those first weeks after leaving a big job in Washington. My networks went into hyper gear. Supportive messages, flowers and wine started arriving. The Banana Bread Brigade was in action. Other friends were outraged. Their calls were such rants that I found myself relinquishing my anger to them. They were much better at it. Others offered me weary wisdom. "It's Washington. Everyone gets what happened. You'll be fine." While I was not ready to hear that prognosis at the time, it turned out to be more than true. Ultimately, a huge space opened up. I had been running at 500 mph while in office, and suddenly I could have a life. Importantly, I came to the realization that I had been robbed of neither my creativity nor my ability to work. The clincher was that I had a partial manuscript for a novel in the bottom of the drawer. I pulled it out and set to work. Within a couple months I published my first novel. Within a year a second book took shape. Loss creates an airless vacuum. But natural law requires that vacuum to fill again. I know that lesson personally. From everything I know of General Shinseki, he thoroughly understands that law as well. May he prosper and thrive in the days and years ahead. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/30/us/morgan-freeman-fast-facts/index.html	us	Morgan Freeman Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/05/30	Thursday May 30 10:45:04 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here is a look at the life of actor Morgan Freeman. Personal:  Birth date: June 1, 1937 Birth place: Memphis, Tennessee Birth name: Morgan Porterfield Freeman, Jr. Father: Morgan Porterfield Freeman, Sr., a barber Mother: Mayme Edna (Revere) Freeman, a teacher Marriages: Myrna (Colley-Lee) Freeman (June 16, 1984-September 15, 2010, divorce); Jeanette Adair (Bradshaw) Freeman (October 22, 1967-November 18, 1979, divorce) Children: with Jeanette Adair Bradshaw: Deena (adopted by Freeman); Morgana, 1971; Saifoulaye, 1960 (mother's name unavailable publicly); with Loletha Adkins: Alphonso, 1959 Education: Studied acting at Los Angeles City College in the early 1960s Military service: U.S. Air Force, 1955-1959 Other Facts:  Nominated for one Tony Award and five Academy Awards; winner of one Academy Award: Best Supporting Actor for "Million Dollar Baby," 2004. Co-founder of the movie production company Revelations Entertainment. Has narrated two Academy Award winning documentaries: "The Long Way Home," 1997 and "March of the Penguins," 2005. Since January 2010, his voice can be heard on the introduction of the CBS Evening News. Timeline:  1970s - Plays Count Dracula on "The Electric Company". 1990s - Starts the Rock River Foundation for education in Mississippi. 2008 - Receives Kennedy Center Honors. 2011 - Receives the American Film Institute's 39th Lifetime Achievement Award. 2012 - Receives the Cecil B. DeMille award for lifetime achievement at the 69th annual Golden Globe awards.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/31/us/dow-jones-industrial-average-fast-facts/index.html	us	Dow Jones Industrial Average Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/05/31	Friday May 31 11:15:19 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at what you need to know about the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Facts:  The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a stock index comprised of 30 "blue-chip" U.S. stocks. It is meant to be a way to measure the strength or weakness of the entire U.S. stock market. The Dow began in 1896 with 12 industrial stocks. Charles Dow created the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Dow Jones & Co was founded by journalists Charles Dow and Edward Jones. Current Dow stocks General Electric is the only stock from the original 12 that is still part of the Dow. Records:  Record high - May 30, 2014 - the Dow closes at 16,717.17. Biggest one day point gain - October 13, 2008, the Dow closes up 936.42. Biggest one day percentage gain - March 15, 1933, the Dow closes up 15.34%. Biggest one day point loss - September 29, 2008, the Dow closes down 777.68 points. Biggest one day percentage loss - October 19, 1987, the Dow closes down 22.61%. Timeline:  1882 - Dow, Jones & Co. is created. 1884 - Charles Dow creates the Dow Averages, the precursor to the DJIA. May 26, 1896 - The first index, made up of 12 industrial companies, is published and the Dow opens at 40.94 points. January 12, 1906 - The Dow closes at 100.25, the first close above 100. October 24, 1929 - The Stock Market crash of 1929 begins which leads to the Great Depression of the 1930s. It takes 25 years for the Dow to regain its September 1929 high of 381 points. 1930 - Dow Jones becomes incorporated and the comma in the name is dropped. March 12, 1956 - The Dow closes at 500.24, the first close above 500. November 14, 1972 - The Dow closes at 1,003.16, the first close above 1,000. October 19, 1987 - The Dow closes down 508 points, at the time the biggest one-day drop ever in the Dow's history. November 21, 1995 - The Dow closes at 5,023.55, the first close above 5,000. March 29, 1999 - The Dow closes at 10,006,78, the first close above 10,000. September 17, 2001 - Stock markets reopen after the 9/11 terror attacks. September 21, 2001 - After the first full week of trading post 9/11, the Dow falls more than 1,300 points, or about 14%. October 19, 2006 - The Dow closes at 12,011.73, the first close above 12,000. April 25, 2007 - The Dow closes at 13,089.89, the first close above 13,000. July 19, 2007 - The Dow closes at 14,000.41 the first close above 14,000. September 29, 2008 - Worst single day point drop in history, plunging 777.68 points - the same day the U.S. House rejects the $700 billion financial bailout package. October 6-10, 2008 - Worst weekly point and percentage decline finishing at 8,451.19, or down 1,874.19 points and 18.15% for the week. May 6, 2010 - The DJIA suffers its worst intra-day trading loss, falling more than 998 points. February 21, 2012 - The Dow crosses the 13,000 level for the first time since May of 2008. February 1, 2013 - The Dow closes above 14,000 for the first time since October of 2007. May 7, 2013 - The Dow closes above 15,000 for the first time. November 21, 2013 - The Dow closes above 16,000 for the first time, at 16,009.99.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/07/world/meast/hosni-mubarak---fast-facts/index.html	world	Hosni Mubarak Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/01/07	Monday Jan 7 04:01:31 EST 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at the life of Hosni Mubarak, former president of Egypt. Personal:  Birth date: May 4, 1928 Birth place: Kafr-el Meselha, Minufiya, Egypt Birth name: Mohammed Hosni Mubarak Marriage: Suzanne (Thabet) Mubarak Children: Gamal, 1963 (son); Alaa, 1961 (son) Education: National Military Academy (Egypt), 1949; Air Force Academy (Egypt), 1952; Frunze General Staff Academy (USSR), 1964 Timeline:  1952-1959 - Works as a flight instructor at the Egyptian Air Force Academy. 1965-1967 - Commands several Air Force bases. 1967-1972 - Appointed as the Director of the Air Force Academy and Chief of Staff of the Egyptian Air Force. 1969 - Mubarak is promoted to Chief of Staff of the Egyptian Air Force. 1972 - Mubarak is promoted to Commander in Chief of the Air Force and Deputy Minister of War. October 1973 - Promoted to the rank of Air Marshal of the Egyptian Air Force. October 6, 1973 - The Egyptian Air Force launches a daytime surprise attack on Israeli soldiers occupying the east bank of the Suez Canal. Within 20 minutes, the pilots hit 90% of their targets. This begins the Yom Kippur War, which lasts for several weeks, making Mubarak a national hero. April 15, 1975 - President Anwar Sadat names Mubarak vice president of Egypt. 1976 -1981 - Mubarak travels extensively as Sadat's emissary. He also assumes control of the day-to-day operations of the government, which frees Sadat to concentrate on foreign policy. 1978 - Appointed as the Vice Chairman of the National Democratic Party (NDP). October 6, 1981 - During a Cairo military parade commemorating Egypt's victories in 1973, Sadat is assassinated by a group of Islamic fundamentalists. Mubarak, standing next to Sadat, suffers an injury to his left hand. October 13, 1981 - Mubarak is elected president of Egypt. And is sworn-in as the country's sixth president the next day. October 5, 1987 - Mubarak is reelected president. 1990-1991 - Emerges as a leader in the U.S. led coalition to liberate Kuwait from Iraqi occupation, by committing 40,000 troops to the mission. 1993 - Mubarak is reelected president. June 26, 1995 - Survives an assassination attempt in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia by an al-Qaeda affiliated group. September 6, 1999 - Survives an assassination attempt in Port Said, Egypt. September 26, 1999 - Mubarak is reelected president and is sworn in on October 5. October 16-18, 2000 - Hosts an emergency summit meeting at Sharm el-Sheikh to discuss the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In attendance are: President Clinton, Yasser Arafat, Ehud Barak, King Abdullah, Javier Solana, and Kofi Annan. November 22, 2000 - Egypt recalls its ambassador from Tel Aviv in protest of West Bank air strikes by Israeli forces. September 24, 2001 - Two weeks after the September 11th attacks, Mubarak gives an interview with France 3 television in which he details how Egyptian intelligence foiled a plot to assassinate President George W. Bush and other heads of state in Genoa, Italy for the G8 summit on June 13, 2001. March 13, 2002 - Mubarak meets at Sharm el-Sheikh with Vice President Dick Cheney. Mubarak pledges to pressure Saddam Hussein into allowing the return of United Nations inspectors. He also reiterates the Arab frustration with the perceived bias of the United States towards Israel in the Mideast conflict. May 1, 2002 - Mubarak delivers a speech critical of the United States and its role in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. June 4, 2002 - In an interview with the New York Times, Mubarak says that Egypt warned the United States about an imminent Al Qaeda attack approximately a week before September 11th. June 6-8, 2002 - Meets with President George W. Bush in Washington to discuss the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and Mubarak's peace plan. November 19, 2003 - Mubarak is forced to break-off from a televised parliamentary speech when he becomes ill. He returns several minutes later and completes the speech. February 26, 2005 - Requests the Egyptian parliament amend the constitution to allow for multi-party elections. September 9, 2005 - Mubarak is officially declared the winner of Egypt's first multiparty presidential election, nabbing a fifth, six-year term. Of the nine candidates for president he wins the election with 88.57 percent of the vote, but turnout is lower than expected. His closest contender is liberal Ayman Nour, with seven percent of the vote. March 13, 2006 - Meets with Pope Benedict XVI. They discuss Iraq, Iran, and the prospects for Middle East peace. May 28, 2006 - Hosts a summit with Israeli's Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, in an effort to coordinate security measures along both countries border, also talked about Israeli-Palestinian peace in the Middle East. June 17, 2006 - Meets with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and asks for renewed peace talks between Israel and Palestine. June 2007 - Holds a summit meeting at Sharm el-Sheik with King Abdullah II of Jordan, President Mahmoud Abbas of Palestine and Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel. August 18, 2009 - Meets in Washington, D.C. with President Barack Obama to discuss the process of peace in the Middle East. March 2010 - Undergoes gall bladder and intestinal surgery in Germany. May 2010 - Requests Egypt's parliament extend emergency law in the country for two more years until May 31, 2012. The request is granted. The country is under the same martial law that has been in place since October 1981 when Sadat was assassinated. January 2011 - Rioting in Cairo and other cities over poverty, unemployment and repression in Egypt. Protestors call for Mubarak to step down. January 29, 2011 - Just after midnight Cairo time, Mubarak addresses the nation and announces that he has asked his government to resign. Later in the day he appoints Omar Suleiman, his intelligence chief, as his vice president. Suleiman is Mubarak's first vice president in 30 years of rule. January 31, 2011 - Swears in his new cabinet. February 1, 2011 - Mubarak announces he will step down in September when his term ends. February 11, 2011 - Egyptian Vice President Omar Suleiman makes a televised announcement telling the world that Hosni Mubarak has stepped down as president of Egypt. February 11, 2011 - The Swiss cabinet freezes all possible assets in Switzerland belonging to Mubarak or his family. April 12, 2011 - According to an Egyptian military spokesman, Mubarak is admitted to Sharm el-Sheikh International Hospital. Egyptian State TV is reporting that he suffered a heart attack during questioning over possible corruption charges. April 13, 2011 - Egypt's Justice Ministry announces that Mubarak and sons Gamal and Alaa have been detained by the authorities. The 15-day detention is part of the investigation of the deaths of protesters in Cairo. April 26, 2011 - Egypt's prosecutor general announces Mubarak will not be moved to a military hospital in Cairo as ordered because the move would be life-threatening. April 26, 2011 - The prosecutor general's office extends the detention of Mubarak's sons, Gamal and Alaa, another 15 days. May 8, 2011 - Mubarak's detention is extended another 15 days. This is the his third 15-day detention. May 13, 2011 - Mubarak's wife Suzanne is ordered held for 15 days. Shortly afterwards she suffers a heart attack and is hospitalized. May 17, 2011 - Suzanne Mubarak is released on bail after she gives up bank accounts worth $3.4 million and a villa. May 24, 2011 - The Egyptian general prosecutor's office announces that Mubarak and sons Gamal and Alaa will face trial on charges of corruption and of killing protesters. May 28, 2011 - Mubarak and two other officials are found guilty of "causing damage to the national economy," and fined more than $90 million for turning off the internet and cell phone service during the unrest that began in January. May 30, 2011 - Doctors announce Mubarak's heart condition makes him too ill to be jailed while awaiting trial. June 20, 2011 - Mubarak's lawyer Farid El Deeb announces that Mubarak has stomach cancer. El Deeb also reveals that Mubarak underwent surgery in Germany in June 2010 to have parts of his pancreas, gall bladder and a growth on his small intestines removed. July 17, 2011 - Mubarak regains consciousness after falling into a coma earlier in the day, a hospital official says. August 3, 2011 - Mubarak's trial for corruption and the killing of more than 800 protesters begins. The proceedings are being held in the police academy where Mubarak is wheeled in on a gurney, wearing a white prison uniform. He pleads not guilty. October 30, 2011 - Mubarak's lawyer tells CNN that his trial has been put on hold for two months pending a decision on whether to replace the judge. Attorneys for victims have objected to the judge presiding over the case. June 2, 2012 - Hosni Mubarak is found guilty of the killing of protesters and is sentenced to life in prison. He is immediately transferred to Tora prison in southern Cairo to serve his life sentence. Six of Mubarak's aides and his sons, Gamal and Alaa, are acquitted. June 11, 2012 - A spokesman for Egypt's Interior Ministry announces that Mubarak has fallen into a 'full coma'. The announcement also says that Mubarak's two sons, Gamal and Alaa, have submitted a request to the prison authority to be at his side and that the request has been accepted. June 19, 2012 - Mubarak's lawyer tells CNN that he has suffered a stroke and has been moved to the Maadi military hospital from the Tora prison hospital. The next day he is removed from life support equipment as his health stabilizes. December 15, 2012 - Mubarak sustains injuries when he slips inside the prison hospital and is transferred to a military hospital twelve days later. January 2013 - Egyptian news media report Murbark and former Interior Minister Habib al-Adly have been granted a new trial. May 11, 2013 - Mubarak's retrial begins. He appears in court on a stretcher, wearing dark sunglasses. August 22, 2013 - Mubarak is released from prison and placed under house arrest at a military hospital. May 21, 2014 - Mubarak is sentenced to three years in prison after being convicted of embezzlement. His sons Gamal and Alaa are sentenced to four years each on the same charge.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/09/11/us/edward-snowden-fast-facts/index.html	us	Edward Snowden Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/09/11	Wednesday Sep 11 04:10:11 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here is a look at the life of Edward Snowden, who has admitted to leaking information about United States surveillance programs to the press. Personal:  Birth date: June 21, 1983 Birth place: Elizabeth City, North Carolina Birth name: Edward Joseph Snowden Father: Lonnie Snowden, former Coast Guard officer Mother: Elizabeth Snowden, federal court administrator Other Facts:  Dropped out of high school. The Guardian reported that in 2009, Snowden got the first of several jobs with private contractors that worked with the National Security Agency (NSA). Timeline:  May 7, 2004 - Enlists in the Army Reserve as a Special Forces candidate. September 28, 2004 - Is discharged from the Army Reserve without completing any training or receiving any awards. 2013 - Works for Booz Allen for less than three months, assigned to a team in Hawaii. Snowden is terminated on June 10, 2013.  May 16, 2013 - Snowden has his first direct exchange with Washington Post reporter Barton Gellman.  May 20, 2013 - Snowden leaves for Hong Kong. May 24, 2013 - In an e-mail to Gellman, Snowden requests that the Post publish, within 72 hours, information about PRISM, a surveillance program that gathers information from Microsoft, Facebook, Google, and others. June 5, 2013 - The Guardian reports that the U.S. government has obtained a secret court order that requires Verizon to turn over the telephone records of millions of Americans to the NSA. June 6, 2013 - The Guardian and the Washington Post disclose the existence of PRISM, a program they say allows the NSA to extract the details of customer activities -- including "audio and video chats, photographs, e-mails, documents" and other materials -- from computers at Microsoft, Google, Apple and other Internet companies. June 9, 2013 - The Guardian and Washington Post disclose Edward Snowden as their source for the intelligence related leaks.  June 9, 2013 - Booz Allen releases a statement confirming that Snowden has been an employee of their firm for almost three months. June 12, 2013 - The South China Morning Post publishes an interview with Snowden in which he says that U.S. intelligence agents have been hacking networks around the world for years.  June 17, 2013 - During a live online chat, the person identified as Snowden by Britain's Guardian newspaper insists that U.S. authorities have access to phone calls, e-mails and other communications far beyond constitutional bounds. June 18, 2013 - Testifying before the House Intelligence Committee, FBI Deputy Director Sean Joyce argues that the PRISM program has helped stop a number of alleged terrorist attacks.  June 21, 2013 - Federal prosecutors unseal a complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Virginia on June 14, 2013, charging Snowden with espionage and theft of government property. June 22, 2013 - A senior U.S. administration official says the United States has contacted authorities in Hong Kong to seek the extradition of Snowden. June 23, 2013 - Flies to Moscow from Hong Kong. Russian President Vladimir Putin later verifies that Snowden is in the transit area of Moscow's Sheremetyevo International Airport. June 23, 2013 - A source tells CNN that the U.S. government has revoked Snowden's passport. June 30, 2013 - German news magazine Der Spiegel reports that classified leaks by Snowden detail NSA bugging of European Union offices in Washington and New York, as well as an EU building in Brussels.  July 1, 2013 - Russia's state-run news agency RIA Novosti reports that Snowden had requested asylum there. July 12, 2013 - Snowden meets with human rights activists and lawyers. He says he is requesting asylum from Russia while he awaits safe passage to Latin America. July 16, 2013 - Russian lawyer Anatoly Kucherena tells CNN that Snowden has applied for temporary asylum in Russia. If the request is granted, Snowden would be able to live in Russia for at least a year. July 24, 2013 - Russian news media reports that Russia has approved documents that would allow Snowden to enter the rest of the country while his temporary asylum request is considered. August 1, 2013 - Kucherena tells CNN that Snowden's application for political asylum for a year has been approved, and he has left the Moscow airport. October 31, 2013 - Snowden's attorney Anatoly Kucherena tells CNN that his client has been hired by a unnamed Russian website. November 3, 2013 - A letter, purportedly written by Snowden, is published in the German magazine Der Spiegel. The letter, titled "A Manifesto for the Truth," says "mass surveillance is a global problem and needs a global solution." December 17, 2013 - Snowden posts an open letter to Brazil, offering to help investigate U.S. surveillance of Brazilian citizens. January 23, 2014 - Attorney General Eric Holder says, "if Mr. Snowden wanted to come back to the United States and enter a plea, we would engage with his lawyers." Snowden says in an online chat the same day that, "(a return to the U.S. is) unfortunately not possible in the face of current whistle-blower protection laws." March 10, 2014 - Snowden speaks via teleconference from Russia to an audience of thousands at the South by Southwest Interactive Festival in Austin, Texas, urging the audience to help "fix" the U.S. government's surveillance of its citizens. The event marks the first time Snowden has directly addressed people in the United States since he fled the country with thousands of secret documents last June. May 28, 2014 - NBC News airs an interview with Snowden in which he claims, "I was trained as a spy in sort of the traditional sense of the word -- in that I lived and worked undercover, overseas, pretending to work in a job that I'm not -- and even being assigned a name that was not mine."In an interview with Wolf Blitzer, National Security Adviser Susan Rice denies that Snowden was ever a U.S. spy.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/09/20/world/taliban-fast-facts/index.html	world	Taliban Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/09/20	Friday Sep 20 01:17:08 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at the Taliban, a Sunni Islamist organization operating primarily in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Facts:  Reclusive leader Mullah Mohammed Omar has led the Taliban since the early 1990s. Taliban, in Pashto, is the plural of Talib, which means student. Most members are Pashtun, the largest ethnic group in Afghanistan. The exact number of Taliban forces is unknown. The group's aim is to impose its interpretation of Islamic law on Afghanistan and remove foreign influence from the country. Timeline:   1979-1989 - The Soviet Union invades and occupies Afghanistan. Afghan resistance fighters, known collectively as mujahedeen, fight back. 1989-1993 - After the Soviet Union withdraws, fighting among the mujahedeen leads to chaos. 1994 - The Taliban are formed, comprised mostly of students and led by mujahedeen veteran Mullah Omar. November 1994 - The Taliban seize the city of Kandahar. September 1996 - The capital, Kabul, falls to the Taliban. 1997 - The Taliban issue an edict renaming Afghanistan the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. The country is only officially recognized by three countries: Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. 1996-2001 - The group imposes strict Islamic laws on the Afghan people. Women must wear head-to-toe coverings, are not allowed to attend school or work outside the home and are forbidden to travel alone. Television, music and non-Islamic holidays are also banned. 1997 - Mullah Omar forges a relationship with Osama bin Laden, who then moves his base of operations to Kandahar. August 1998 - The Taliban capture Mazar-e-Sharif, gaining control of about 90% of Afghanistan. March 2001 - The Taliban destroy two 1,500 year old Buddha figures in the town of Bamiyan, saying they are idols that violate Islam. October-November 2001 - After massive U.S. bombardment as a part of Operation Enduring Freedom, the Taliban lose Afghanistan to U.S. and Northern Alliance forces. December 2006 - Senior Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Mohammad Osmani is killed in an airstrike by the U.S. February 2007 - Mullah Manan, a senior Taliban commander, is killed in an air strike in southern Afghanistan. May 2007 - Mullah Dadullah Lang, a senior Taliban leader, is killed in a U.S.-led coalition operation supported by NATO. August 2007 - During a visit to Afghanistan, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad denies his country is providing the Taliban weapons. December 11, 2007 - Afghan troops backed by NATO recapture the provincial town of Musa Qala from Taliban control. February 2008 - Taliban operative Mullah Bakht Mohammed is captured by Pakistani forces. October 21, 2008 - Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal confirms that Saudi Arabia hosted talks between Afghan officials and the Taliban in September. It is reported that no agreements were made. April 25, 2011 - Hundreds of prisoners escape from a prison in Kandahar, by crawling through a tunnel. The Taliban takes responsibility for the escape and claims that 541 prisoners escaped, while ISAF says the number is 470. September 10, 2011 - Two Afghan civilians are killed and 77 U.S. troops are wounded during a vehicle borne improvised explosive device (SVBIED) attack at the entrance of Combat Outpost Sayed Abad, an ISAF base in Afghanistan's Wardak province. The Taliban claim responsibility. September 13, 2011 - Taliban militants open fire on the U.S. Embassy and NATO's International Security Assistance Force headquarters in central Kabul. Three police officers and one civilian are killed. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid tells CNN their target is the U.S. Embassy, governmental organizations and other foreign organizations. February 27, 2012 - The Taliban claim responsibility for a suicide bombing near the front gate of the International Security Assistance Force base at Jalalabad airport in Afghanistan. At least nine people are killed and 12 wounded in the explosion. The Taliban says the bombing is in retaliation for the burning of Qurans at a U.S. base last week. August 8, 2012 -  According to senior U.S. officials, in an effort to revive peace talks with the Taliban, the Obama administration has proposed a prisoner swap under which it would transfer five Taliban prisoners to Qatar in exchange for a U.S. soldier held by the Taliban. The new proposal involves sending all five Taliban prisoners to Qatar first, before the Taliban releases Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl. The original offer proposed transferring the Taliban prisoners in two groups, with Bergdahl being released in between. June 18, 2013 - An official political office of the Taliban opens in Doha, Qatar's capital city. The Taliban announce that they hope to improve relations with other countries, head toward a peaceful solution to the Afghanistan occupation and establish an independent Islamic system in the country. September 21, 2013 - Pakistan announces that Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the founding members of the Taliban, has been released from prison. Baradar had been captured in Karachi, Pakistan in 2010. May 31, 2014 - The United States transfers five Guantanamo Bay detainees to Qatar in exchange for the release of Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl. They are: Khair Ulla Said Wali Khairkhwa, Mullah Mohammad Fazl, Mullah Norullah Nori, Abdul Haq Wasiq and Mohammad Nabi Omari. It is believed he was being held by the Taliban and al Qaeda-aligned Haqqani network in Pakistan.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/29/us/joe-namath-fast-facts/index.html	us	Joe Namath Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/05/29	Wednesday May 29 03:28:57 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at the life of Pro Football Hall of Fame quarterback Joe Namath. Personal:  Birth date: May 31, 1943 Birth place:  Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania Birth name:  Joseph William Namath Father:  John Namath, steel mill worker Mother:  Rose (Juhasz) Namath, maid Marriage: Deborah Lynn "Tatiana" (Mays) Namath (1984-1999, divorced) Children: Olivia Rose, December 11, 1990; Jessica Grace, October 12, 1985 Education: University of Alabama, B.A., 2007 Other Facts:  Nicknamed "Broadway Joe." Played 13 seasons as quarterback for the New York Jets (1965-1976) and the Los Angeles Rams (1977). Excelled at basketball in high school and was offered a professional baseball contract when he graduated, but he chose to pursue football. Pursued an acting career on stage, screen and television. Longtime University of Alabama head football coach Paul "Bear" Bryant called Namath "the greatest athlete I ever coached." Famously guaranteed victory in Super Bowl III (1969) over the Baltimore Colts, the favored team. The New York Jets won 16 to 7, and Namath was named MVP. Timeline:  1962-1964 seasons - Plays for the University of Alabama Crimson Tide under head coach "Bear" Bryant. 1963 - Suspended the final two games of the season, including the 1964 Sugar Bowl, for disciplinary problems. November 29, 1964 - Namath is drafted first overall by the American Football League's New York Jets and is also selected first round (12th overall) by the National Football League's St. Louis Cardinals. At the time, the AFL and NFL had separate drafts. January 1, 1965 - Is voted MVP in a loss in the Orange Bowl to Texas, 21-17. It is Namath's final college game. January 2, 1965 - Namath signs with the Jets a three-year rookie contract worth $427,000, a record at the time, which includes a Lincoln Continental. January 1965 - Has his first knee surgery. 1965-1976 seasons - Quarterback for the New York Jets. September 18, 1965 - Namath's first appearance in home game at Shea Stadium. The Kansas City Chiefs beat the New York Jets, 14-10. December 20, 1965 - Named AFL's Rookie of the Year. 1967 - First pro quarterback to pass for more than 4,000 yards in a single season. January 12, 1969 - The New York Jets win Super Bowl III after Namath promises victory over the heavily favored Baltimore Colts, by a score of 16-7. 1977 season - Quarterback for the Los Angeles Rams; retires at the end of the season at age 34. September 20-November 6, 1983 - Appears in the play "The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial" on Broadway. 1985 - Is inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame. April 1992 - Has both knees replaced. December 20, 2003 - On the sideline at a Patriots-Jets game on ESPN, Suzy Kolber interviews a visibly drunk Namath who says, "I want to kiss you" twice before the camera cuts away. Namath later publicly apologizes and privately apologizes to Kolber. January 2004 - Namath enters a substance abuse program for alcoholism; he is also treated for depression. 2006 - Publishes his autobiography, "Namath." December 15, 2007 - Graduates from the University of Alabama, more than 40 years after leaving school to play professional football. January 2014 - Namath reveals in an interview with CBS he has dealt with ongoing health effects of concussions incurred while he was a football player.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/08/27/health/sarin-fast-facts/index.html	health	Sarin Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/08/27	Tuesday Aug 27 03:59:30 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at what you need to know about sarin, a man-made nerve agent developed for chemical warfare. Facts:  Sarin is a liquid that is clear, colorless, tasteless and odorless.  Once evaporated, sarin becomes a gas and can spread into the environment. Sarin's military designation is GB. People are exposed to sarin through skin contact, eye contact, or by breathing it in through the air. Sarin can also be mixed with water or food. Sarin is an extremely volatile nerve agent because of the ability to change from liquid to gas. Sarin dissipates quickly, presenting an immediate but short-lived threat. Sarin's main ingredient is methyl phosphonyl difluoride. Effects:  Mild or moderately exposed people usually recover completely. Severely exposed people are not likely to survive. Symptoms of mild to moderate exposure include:  Runny nose  Watery eyes  Small, pinpoint pupils  Eye pain  Blurred vision  Drooling and excessive sweating  Cough  Chest tightness  Rapid breathing  Diarrhea  Increased urination  Confusion  Drowsiness  Weakness  Headache  Nausea, vomiting, and/or abdominal pain  Slow or fast heart rate  Low or high blood pressure  Loss of consciousness  Convulsions  Paralysis  Respiratory failure possibly leading to death Symptoms of severe exposure include:  Loss of Consciousness  Convulsions  Paralysis  Respiratory failure possibly leading to death. Treatment:  Leave the area of contamination as quickly as possible. Seek fresh air if exposure occurs indoors. If exposure is outdoors, head to higher ground as sarin is heavier than air and sinks. Removal of contaminated clothing, flushing eyes with water, and washing skin with soap and water. Medical care should be sought immediately. If ingested, do not induce vomiting or flush with fluids. Medical care should be sought immediately. Antidotes are available in many hospitals. Timeline:  1938 - Sarin is developed in Germany as a pesticide. April-May 1967 - The U.S. military secretly tests sarin in the Upper Waiakea Forest Reserve on the island of Hawaii. The testers detonate sarin-filled 155mm artillery shells to study how the nerve agent disperses in a tropical jungle. The test is called "Red Oak." The Pentagon confirms the Red Oak program in November 2002. 1980s - Sarin and other nerve agents may have been used in chemical warfare during the Iran-Iraq War. March 1988 - On "Bloody Friday," the Iraqi air force attacks the northern Iraq town of Halabja with poison gases that were thought to include sarin, VX and other deadly compounds. Reports indicate that 5,000 people die in the attack. Countless others suffer eyesight loss, respiratory ailments and cancers. June 27, 1994 - In Japan, seven people die and more than 500 are hospitalized when the Aum Supreme Truth or Aum Shinri Kyo cult release sarin from a truck driving slowly around an apartment complex in Matsumoto, Nagano Prefecture. Another victim dies in 2008. March 20, 1995 - In Japan, the Aum Supreme Truth or Aum Shinri Kyo (now known as Aleph) cult places plastic bags of sarin on trains that converge in the government district during Tokyo's rush hour. 13 people die and more than 5,000 become ill. May 17, 2004 - A coalition convoy in Baghdad finds sarin gas in an artillery round that had been rigged as an improvised explosive device. The IED detonates as officials attempt to defuse it. Two members of the explosive ordinance team suffer minor exposure. June 23, 2006 - The U.S. Army releases a report to Congress stating that allied forces have recovered approximately 500 weapons munitions containing degraded mustard or sarin gas since 2003. The weapons were produced before the 1991 Gulf War, and many experts believe the sarin would no longer be dangerous. June 15, 2012 - Katsuya Takahashi, 54, the last fugitive suspect in the 1995 sarin attacks on the Tokyo subway is captured by Japanese police, ending a 17-year manhunt. April 25, 2013 - Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel announces that Syria has used sarin on a small scale, killing 150 people in the country. August 21, 2013 - A new alleged chemical weapons attack kills more than 1,000 people in the countryside outside its capital Damascus. Hundreds of those killed are children. September 1, 2013 - Secretary of State John Kerry announces that samples of blood and hair taken from eastern Damascus have "tested positive for signatures of sarin." September 16, 2013 - U.N. weapons inspectors returned "overwhelming and indisputable" evidence of the use of sarin in Syria, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said, calling the findings "beyond doubt and beyond the pale."  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/09/15/world/asia/tiananmen-square-fast-facts/index.html	world	Tiananmen Square Fast Facts - CNN.com	2013/09/15	Sunday Sep 15 09:03:14 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- Here's a look at what you need to know about the events in Beijing, China's Tiananmen Square on June 3-4, 1989. Facts:  Tiananmen Square is located in the center of Beijing, the capital of China. Tiananmen means "gate of heavenly peace." In 1989, after several weeks of demonstrations, Chinese troops entered Tiananmen Square on June 4 and fired on civilians. Estimates of the death toll range from several hundred to thousands. It has been estimated that as many as 10,000 people were arrested during and after the protests. Several dozen people have been executed for their parts in the demonstrations. Timeline:  April 15, 1989 - Hu Yaobang, a former Communist Party leader, dies. Hu had worked to move China toward a more open political system and had become a symbol of democratic reform. April 18, 1989 - Thousands of mourning students march through the capital to Tiananmen Square, calling for a more democratic government. In the weeks that follow, thousands of people join the students in the square to protest against China's Communist rulers. May 13, 1989 - More than 100 students begin a hunger strike in Tiananmen Square. The number increases to several thousand over the next few days. May 19, 1989 - A rally at Tiananmen Square draws an estimated 1.2 million people. General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party, Zhao Ziyang, appears at the rally and pleads for an end to the demonstrations. May 19, 1989 - Premier Li Peng imposes martial law. June 1, 1989 - China halts live American news telecasts in Beijing, including CNN. Also reporters are prohibited from photographing or videotaping any of the demonstrations or Chinese troops. June 2, 1989 - A reported 100,000 people attend a concert in Tiananmen Square by singer Hou Dejian, in support of the demonstrators. June 4, 1989 - At about 1 a.m. Chinese troops reach Tiananmen Square. Throughout the day, Chinese troops fire on civilians and students, ending the demonstrations. An official death toll has never been released. June 5, 1989 - An unidentified man stands alone in the street, blocking a column of Chinese tanks. He remains there for several minutes before being pulled away by onlookers. June 5, 1999 - Approximately 70,000 people in Hong Kong take part in a memorial vigil. February 2006 - Former journalist Yu Dongyue is released from prison after serving 17 years. He was arrested during the Tiananmen Square protests for throwing paint at a portrait of Mao Zedong. June 4, 2009 - Tens of thousands of people commemorate the 20th anniversary of Tiananmen Square at a gathering in Hong Kong. In Beijing, journalists are barred from the square while the government blocks foreign news sites and Twitter. April 2011 - The National Museum of China in Tiananmen Square is newly renovated and open to the public. The building contains no exhibits mentioning the events of June 1989. 2012 - Wuer Kaixi, one of the organizers of the Tiananmen Square protest, attempts to return to China by turning himself over to the Chinese embassy in Washington, DC. The embassy does not answer the door.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/31/us/missing-climbers/index.html	us	6 missing climbers believed to have fallen - CNN.com	2014/05/31	Saturday May 31 09:54:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Six people who attempted to climb Mount Rainier in Washington state have been involved in some sort of fall, with "no viable chance of survival," a park official said after a helicopter search team spotted climbing gear on the mountain Saturday. Tents and equipment believed to belong to the group were located in the area of Carbon Glacier, a debris area with a lot of falling rocks and ice, said Mount Rainier National Park spokeswoman Fawn Bauer. Rescuers received a signal from the party's emergency beacons, but will continue their search by air only, because entering the area from the ground is too dangerous for a rescue crew, Bauer said. The climbing party, which included two experienced guides, last made contact with the park Wednesday afternoon. At that time, Bauer said, the party indicated everything was fine and that they were at 12,800 feet. The climbers planned to reach the summit on Thursday and descend on Friday. Friday afternoon, Alpine Ascent, the company affiliated with the guides, notified the park that they were not able to locate the group. About 10,000 people attempt to scale Mount Rainier each year, but only about half reach the 14,417-foot summit, according to the National Park Service.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/15/world/asia/myanmar-aung-san-suu-kyi-rohingya-disappointment/index.html	world	Aung San Suu Kyi's Rohingya 'silence': Has 'The Lady' lost her voice? - CNN.com	2014/04/15	Tuesday Apr 15 12:20:44 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Having endured nearly 15 years of house arrest with grace and courage, Aung San Suu Kyi has earned a reputation throughout the world as a political superstar of rare moral stature. But for some, mostly from outside the country but also from within, the aura surrounding Myanmar's most famous daughter has dimmed in recent years. "I think everyone agrees now she has been a disappointment when it comes to human rights promotion," said David Mathieson, Human Rights Watch's senior researcher on Myanmar. The Nobel Peace Prize winner's glittering international reputation means that visiting dignitaries still clamor for a meeting since she emerged from detention in 2010 and set about pressing her case to become the next president of post-reform Myanmar. "Everyone that arrives in Rangoon (Yangon) expects to get a photo op," said Mathieson. "They all want that Suu Kyi photo on the mantelpiece." But for some observers of Myanmar's emergence from nearly half a century of authoritarian military rule, the 68-year-old's perceived failure to speak out against rising violence towards the mainly Buddhist country's Muslim Rohingya minority is grounds for criticism. HRW executive director Kenneth Roth was withering in a recent report: "The world was apparently mistaken to assume that as a revered victim of rights abuse she would also be a principled defender of rights." Aung Zaw, editor of Myanmar news magazine The Irrawaddy, said that while she remained popular among Burmese, Suu Kyi had eroded some of her domestic support in recent years. Her failure to speak out on ethnic issues and the communal violence that had wracked the country was "shocking," he said, and had been met with disappointment in quarters of the country's ethnic communities. "People expected her -- as she is a Nobel Peace Prize winner -- to say a few words to stop the bloodshed," he said. Ethnic conflict has been a recurring feature of Myanmar's political landscape since it gained independence from Britain in 1948. But following the 2011 transition from military rule to quasi-civilian governance, the country has witnessed a significant spike in violence targeting Muslims, with Buddhist extremists blamed for fanning the flames of hatred. The Rohingya -- a Muslim minority concentrated in impoverished Rakhine state in the west of the country -- has borne the worst of it, prompting the U.N.'s Special Rapporteur on Myanmar, Tomas Ojea Quintana, to declare this month that the recent persecution of the group "could amount to crimes against humanity." Myanmar presidential spokesman Ye Htut told CNN the government rejected the remarks. Myanmar's most persecuted minority The Rohingya -- regarded by many in Myanmar as interlopers from neighboring Bangladesh -- are de jure stateless due to their lack of official recognition as one of the country's 135 ethnic groups. During the controversial recent national census, the country's first in 31 years, officials forbade respondents from identifying as Rohingya, drawing international criticism. The Rohingya face "very, very strong" antipathy throughout the country, according to Georgetown University expert David Steinberg, being subjected to restrictions on marriage, employment, health care, education and movement, and are the only group in the country barred from having more than two children. In 2012, outbreaks of communal violence in Rakhine -- home to an estimated 800,000 Rohingya -- left hundreds dead, the majority of them Muslims. The bloodshed displaced huge populations from their homes into squalid camps, where 140,000, mostly Rohingya, remain, completely reliant on humanitarian aid supplies that are increasingly being restricted. In March, Doctors Without Borders -- the largest NGO healthcare provider in Rakhine -- was banned from operating in the state, where it had worked for more than 20 years, because officials accused it of providing preferential treatment to Rohingya. Weeks later, international aid workers were driven from the state during rioting by Buddhist-led mobs angry at the aid workers' perceived support for the Rohingya, a development Quintana warned would have severe consequences for the 140,000 within the camps, and 700,000 vulnerable people outside them. The killings have persisted as well, according to reports. The U.N. says that in January, at least 40 Rohingya men, women and children were killed by security forces and civilians from the Rakhine ethnic group at a village in Rakhine state called Du Chee Yar Tan. An official inquiry by Myanmar's government found no evidence to support the claims of a massacre, said Htut. While Suu Kyi -- who, through her staff, declined to comment for this story -- has joined rights activists in criticizing the two-child limit for Rohingya as discriminatory, her critics say she has been less than emphatic about the communal violence that has disproportionately affected the Rohingya. When drawn on the Rohingya issue, "The Lady," as she is known in Myanmar, has consistently hewn to familiar talking points: stressing the rule of law and a commitment to non-violence, while refusing to condemn either side -- a position that many rights activists find untenable. She has rejected the HRW's characterization of the situation as "ethnic cleansing," and told an Indian television interviewer in 2012 not to "forget that violence has been committed by both sides." "This is why I prefer not to take sides and also I want to work towards reconciliation between these two communities. I'm not going to be able to do that if I'm going to take sides." In November, she told an audience in Sydney that "what people want is not defense but condemnation. I am not condemning because I have not found that condemnation brings good results." Suu Kyi's stance, said Chris Lewa, director of Rohingya advocacy group The Arakan Project, was "very disappointing," in that it falsely equated the suffering of Buddhists and Muslims in Rakhine. "Silence is not remaining neutral. It's giving a green light to those who want violence, keeping this climate of impunity and insecurity." A 'politically calculated silence'? So why has this outspoken defender of human rights seemingly lost her voice? It is, says Mathieson, "a politically calculated silence" that reflects the re-entry of Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy into the political fold in earnest. The former political prisoner, who described herself to CNN last year as having "been a politician all along," has repeatedly said she wants to be the next president of Myanmar. The 2015 general election will see her compete against the military-backed party of President Thein Sein on one flank, and hardline anti-regime activists on the other. "She's playing a different game now," said Mathieson. "People still see her as this great Nobel Peace Prize-winning icon for human rights and democracy -- what they don't get now is she wants to be a politician taking on one of the most brutal militaries in the world." Mathieson said Suu Kyi's political fortunes depended on negotiating several challenges, including trying to strike a balance between international expectations -- "most of which are outlandishly unfair and ill-informed" -- and a "very complicated domestic setting where if she suddenly did do a volte-face and spoke out on behalf of Muslims, it would be politically disastrous." Moreover, she was operating in a complicated post-authoritarian domestic environment in which she had opted to work inside the system as a lawmaker and was compelled to keep senior military figures, who still hold a strong grip on the reins of power, onside. "I can understand why she's walking on eggshells," he said. Suu Kyi's political ambitions were complicated by the fact that a clause in Myanmar's 2008 military-drafted constitution prohibits anyone with a foreign spouse or children from becoming president, said Mathieson. Suu Kyi's late husband was a foreign-born Oxford academic, and her two adult sons are British. While Suu Kyi and her supporters are seeking to have this clause removed from the constitution before 2015, the time frame to achieve this is short, and parliament has indicated any changes to the constitution would prioritize other reforms first. For some in Myanmar, it is her perceived failure to successfully negotiate her new relationship with the military that is the biggest source of disappointment. To Zaw, her accommodations to the military establishment have led to her, and others in the opposition, being co-opted by a "completely flawed system." "Her reading of the government, an offshoot of the repressive regime, has been wrong," said Zaw, citing her controversial support for a Chinese-backed copper mine in Letpadeung, which saw her sharply criticized by local residents opposed to the project, as one such misstep to have alienated supporters. "The regime is clever at using her political legitimacy to advance its goal to legitimize its rule, and to change the perceptions of Western governments towards the country -- from pariah to darling of the West. While she retained popularity among many Burmese, he said, the result was that Suu Kyi had lost some of her allies "inside and outside of Burma." 'Not so simple' But others are more forgiving of her position. Influential blogger and activist Nay Phone Latt, who was a political prisoner for four years under the junta and is currently campaigning against a wave of "hate speech" in Myanmar, stressed that Suu Kyi was negotiating a complex political environment at a critical juncture for the country. "The political situation (in) our country is not so simple," he said. "I don't want to blame her." Steinberg said he interpreted Suu Kyi's politically expedient stance on the Rohingya issue as motivated out of concern for Myanmar's national interest, rather than being a purely self-interested act. "I think she thinks she's the person in that country who best understands what democracy is about, and what's best for the future of Burma." He believed that Suu Kyi remained "very important" to Myanmar's future, but that her significance would diminish over time, if the government's rapid reforms of recent years continued apace and brought about significant change. "If the government can deliver improvement in the lives of the people, if they do things with the environment and pay attention to minorities, then her status will quietly diminish," he said. Suu Kyi would likely retain a high profile to the rest of the world regardless, he predicted, "because we like Joans of Arc." For Zaw, despite his criticisms, Suu Kyi remained "one of the hopes in Burma," alongside "many other democrats and ethnic leaders who continue to push for genuine change." She retained the support of many, he said, and crucially, she was not corrupt. "I still think there's time for her to change her tactics, reconnect to the roots and rebuild her base," he said. "If she can mobilize people and her allies, inside and outside, the other side will negotiate and make more meaningful concessions. "She is someone Burma was expecting for many decades. She should know that the country needs her."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/01/us/massachusetts-plane-crash/index.html	us	Seven people aboard when plane caught fire and crashed near runway - CNN.com	2014/06/01	Sunday Jun 1 12:22:18 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Seven people were on board a private plane that caught fire and crashed near a runway in Bedford, Massachusetts, late Saturday, said Sharon Williams, director of Hanscom Field. Rescuers are at the scene of the crash, but authorities have no word on the condition of passengers and crew. The Gulfstream IV jet was taking off from Hanscom Air Force Base when it ran into a wooded area. Airport operations were shut down. CNN's Rick Martin contributed to this report 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/01/us/bergdahl-transferred-guantanamo-detainees/index.html	us	The Gitmo detainees swapped for Bergdahl: Who are they? - CNN.com	2014/06/01	Sunday Jun 1 01:31:49 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Together with the announcement that U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl was released after nearly five years of captivity came the news that five detainees at Guantanamo Bay were being transferred to Qatar. A plane carrying the detainees left the U.S. Navy base in Guantanamo, Cuba, after the announcement that Bergdahl, who was captured by the Taliban in Afghanistan in 2009, had been exchanged for the five men. Saturday's transfer was brokered through the Qatari government, a senior Defense official said. According to senior administration officials, Qatar agreed to take custody of the detainees and provide assurances they would not pose a threat to the United States, including a one-year ban from travel out of Qatar. Two senior administration officials confirmed the names of the five released detainees as Khair Ulla Said Wali Khairkhwa, Mullah Mohammad Fazl, Mullah Norullah Nori, Abdul Haq Wasiq and Mohammad Nabi Omari. They were mostly mid- to high-level officials in the Taliban regime and had been detained early in the war in Afghanistan, because of their positions within the Taliban, not because of ties to al Qaeda. CNN has published photos obtained by WikiLeaks that match the names released by the Department of Defense of men exchanged for Bergdahl. The DoD would neither confirm nor deny the images' accuracy. And CNN has not been able to independently confirm their authenticity. CNN profiled them two years ago, when their names first surfaced as candidates for a transfer as part of talks with the Taliban: Khair Ulla Said Wali Khairkhwa Khairkhwa was an early member of the Taliban in 1994 and was interior minister during the Taliban's rule. He hails from the same tribe as Afghan President Hamid Karzai and was captured in January 2002. Khairkhwa's most prominent position was as governor of Herat province from 1999 to 2001, and he was alleged to have been "directly associated" with Osama bin Laden. According to a detainee assessment, Khairkhwa also was probably associated with al Qaeda's now-deceased leader in Iraq, Abu Musab al Zarqawi. He is described as one of the "major opium drug lords in western Afghanistan" and a "friend" of Karzai. He was arrested in Pakistan and was transferred to Guantanamo in May 2002. During questioning, Khairkhwa denied all knowledge of extremist activities. Mullah Mohammad Fazl Fazl commanded the main force fighting the U.S.-backed Northern Alliance in 2001, and served as chief of army staff under the Taliban regime. He has been accused of war crimes during Afghanistan's civil war in the 1990s. Fazl was detained after surrendering to Abdul Rashid Dostam, the leader of Afghanistan's Uzbek community, in November 2001. He was wanted by the United Nations in connection with the massacre of thousands of Afghan Shiites during the Taliban's rule. "When asked about the murders, he did not express any regret," according to the detainee assessment. He was alleged to have been associated with several militant Islamist groups, including al Qaeda. He was transferred into U.S. custody in December 2001 and was one of the first arrivals at Guantanamo, where he was assessed as having high intelligence value. Mullah Norullah Noori  Noori served as governor of Balkh province in the Taliban regime and played some role in coordinating the fight against the Northern Alliance. Like Fazl, Noori was detained after surrendering to Dostam, the Uzbek leader, in 2001. Noori claimed during interrogation that "he never received any weapons or military training." According to 2008 detainee assessment, Noori "continues to deny his role, importance and level of access to Taliban officials." That same assessment characterized him as high risk and of high intelligence value. Abdul Haq Wasiq  Wasiq was the deputy chief of the Taliban regime's intelligence service. His cousin was head of the service. An administrative review in 2007 cited a source as saying that Wasiq was also "an al Qaeda intelligence member" and had links with members of another militant Islamist group, Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin. Wasiq claimed, according to the review, that he was arrested while trying to help the United States locate senior Taliban figures. He denied any links to militant groups. Mohammad Nabi Omari  Omari was a minor Taliban official in Khost Province. According to the first administrative review in 2004, he was a member of the Taliban and associated with both al Qaeda and another militant group Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin. He was the Taliban's chief of communications and helped al Qaeda members escape from Afghanistan to Pakistan. Omari acknowledged during hearings that he had worked for the Taliban but denied connections with militant groups. He also said that he had worked with a U.S. operative named Mark to try to track down Taliban leader Mullah Omar. CNN's Elise Labott and Erin McPike contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/01/world/asia/india-rape-village-color/index.html	world	Grief, fear, blame in Indian village where cousins raped and hanged - CNN.com	2014/06/01	Sunday Jun 1 03:25:21 EDT 2014	Katra Sadatganj, Uttar Pradesh, India (CNN) -- It's pitch dark as we drive through the villages of India's most populous state. No street lights line the roads which cross large swaths of farmland; the only flashes of light come from the bolts of lightning which flicker across the stormy night sky. A powerful dust storm has knocked out power supplies as we head into Uttar Pradesh's Budaun district, but the headlights of our car illuminate the hazy figures of men and women squatting behind roadside bushes to defecate. Some 120km ahead of us lies the village -- Katra Sadatganj -- where two schoolgirls were attacked when they went out into the fields to relieve themselves Tuesday night; the pair were gang raped and later found hanged in a mango tree. The brutal assault has brought a range of challenges facing India into the international spotlight, almost 67 years after the country gained its independence from British rule. At Katra Sadatganj, villagers mourning the two girls blame a cocktail of issues for the horrific rape attack, from a lack of decent sanitation, to underdevelopment, to what they call police "slackness" in response to the girls' disappearance. According to UNICEF, India has the highest number of people in the world -- an estimated 620 million -- who defecate in the open; only half of the nation's population uses toilets. Most of those living at Katra Sadatganj have little choice in the matter. "There's no toilet. Where can the girls go?" shouted Jamuna Devi, one of those who had gathered to mourn the dead girls, as she sat on the mud floor of their home. "No one has done anything for sanitation," she complained. "We are scared," screamed Renu Devi, another of the women consoling the pair's bereaved mothers. "If this could happen to them, it could happen with us also." WATCH: India outraged by gang rape and murder The mourners also accuse police of apathy, echoing concerns raised over and over again by human rights groups and activists concerning the handling of cases by India's law enforcement officers. Most of the country's policing system is based on the 19th-century, colonial-era Indian Penal Code (IPC), designed in the wake of an armed uprising against British rule in 1857. In its 2009 report, U.S.-based Human Rights Watch reported that Indian police forces have yet to evolve from the IPC's original pattern of behavior. "Authorities have acknowledged in past years that the country's police have also been under-staffed and under-resourced." Katra Sadatganj's police station has been temporarily shut down after the attack drew national and international attention. Two of its officers are among five people who have been arrested in connection with the schoolgirls' deaths. The arrests so far notwithstanding, the murdered girls' families are unforgiving about the police's response to the case. "If police wanted, my daughter would have been alive today," the father of the eldest victim wailed.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/opinion/borger-bergdahl-swap-motives-mistakes-excuses/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Bergdahl's release: Motives, mistakes and excuses - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:43:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In all of the fallout surrounding the prisoner exchange for Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, let's get these points out of the way: the case for leaving no soldier behind is a sound and important one  a way to keep faith with our troops. There is historical precedent for the exchange of prisoners. President Obama likely has the legal authority he needs, as commander in chief, to order a swap. Did the president notify Congress  as in the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee  in a timely manner beforehand? No. Had this been a matter of some internal controversy for years precisely because of the nature of any trade? Yes. Was the White House aware of the questionable circumstances of Bergdahl's disappearance? Yes. Should National Security Adviser Susan Rice have thought twice before describing him as someone who "served with honor and distinction." Yes, because the jury is most definitely out on that one. Should the President have held a triumphal newser in the Rose Garden to announce the release and swap? Um, no. Absolutely no. "The point is, you have to get him home as a way to keep faith with our troops," says a former senior national security official. "Everybody gets that. Then you deal with him and the circumstances of his departure." As for the ceremony in the President's backyard? "That was surreal," he says. "Truly." Opinion: Five tough ethics issues in Bergdahl swap In a way, it's all surreal and hard to unspool. So let's start at the policy end of all of this. This is a president whose legacy is up for grabs. One important piece: ending two wars (Iraq and Afghanistan) and capturing and killing Osama bin Laden. "This (The Bergdahl swap) is tying up loose ends," says another former senior national security source. "The administration made the decision not to leave any people there, so that was that." The Republicans, of course, argue that a virtually 100% withdrawal is wrong. That the President should have instead planned for a gradual withdrawal, depending on circumstances on the ground. Then he might not have felt such pressure to clear the decks and cut this deal. Or do a victory lap in the Rose Garden. It is, they charge, pure politics. Then Obama played right into their hands. Trouble is, Republicans are playing at it, too. They're tweeting their joy about Bergdahl's release one minute, then un-tweeting it the next. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham charged that this is the President's backdoor way of emptying out Guantanamo without having to close it. Please. Who are the Gitmo detainees? This is a serious matter. Years of internal deliberations have gone into this, according to my sources. That's why the White House needs to make it clear why the swap was a matter so urgent that there wasn't enough time to notify the appropriate people, much less consult with them. Was Bergdahl swap legal? Depends on who you ask Understandably, there were concerns about his safety. And even given all the delicacies of revealing health issues, it's still an important matter to explain. Because right now, it looks like the lack of consultation is about one thing: the knowledge that there would be pushback. And, as one source puts it, "fighting over process is always easier than fighting over substance." In other words, it's easier to apologize than ask for permission. Now the administration has fights on both of those fronts. At least they're consistent: micromanaging foreign policy from the west wing has always been a hallmark. Not that it wins you any friends  or political support. Guess it's too late for that now. If this were Netflix, a replica of SEAL Team Six could have swooped in to the rescue, just like they did in 2011. Ironically, my sources say, the bin Laden raid itself complicated events: If Bergdahl was in Pakistan, would that inflame an already inflamed relationship due to the bin Laden raid? Was the intel good enough? Was the considerable risk worth it? Taliban video shows Bowe Bergdahl's release in Afghanistan The backdrop to all of this is that the same questions that are now being raised publicly had been raised internally for years  about what a "fair" trade would include. As CNN's Elise Labott has reported, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was skeptical of early plans to trade five Gitmo prisoners for Bergdahl. And as my national security source adds, "people opposed the deal because it wasn't great." But, he adds, "they were also looking at a deal that would provoke negotiations with the Taliban." Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl That is not the case now. The conflict is winding down. We're leaving Afghanistan. No one left behind. Sgt. Bergdahl gets to go home. What lingers, sadly, is the unsettling reality that five really, really bad guys have a ticket home, too. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/opinion/borger-bergdahl-swap-motives-mistakes-excuses/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Bergdahl's release: Motives, mistakes and excuses - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:43:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In all of the fallout surrounding the prisoner exchange for Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, let's get these points out of the way: the case for leaving no soldier behind is a sound and important one  a way to keep faith with our troops. There is historical precedent for the exchange of prisoners. President Obama likely has the legal authority he needs, as commander in chief, to order a swap. Did the president notify Congress  as in the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee  in a timely manner beforehand? No. Had this been a matter of some internal controversy for years precisely because of the nature of any trade? Yes. Was the White House aware of the questionable circumstances of Bergdahl's disappearance? Yes. Should National Security Adviser Susan Rice have thought twice before describing him as someone who "served with honor and distinction." Yes, because the jury is most definitely out on that one. Should the President have held a triumphal newser in the Rose Garden to announce the release and swap? Um, no. Absolutely no. "The point is, you have to get him home as a way to keep faith with our troops," says a former senior national security official. "Everybody gets that. Then you deal with him and the circumstances of his departure." As for the ceremony in the President's backyard? "That was surreal," he says. "Truly." Opinion: Five tough ethics issues in Bergdahl swap In a way, it's all surreal and hard to unspool. So let's start at the policy end of all of this. This is a president whose legacy is up for grabs. One important piece: ending two wars (Iraq and Afghanistan) and capturing and killing Osama bin Laden. "This (The Bergdahl swap) is tying up loose ends," says another former senior national security source. "The administration made the decision not to leave any people there, so that was that." The Republicans, of course, argue that a virtually 100% withdrawal is wrong. That the President should have instead planned for a gradual withdrawal, depending on circumstances on the ground. Then he might not have felt such pressure to clear the decks and cut this deal. Or do a victory lap in the Rose Garden. It is, they charge, pure politics. Then Obama played right into their hands. Trouble is, Republicans are playing at it, too. They're tweeting their joy about Bergdahl's release one minute, then un-tweeting it the next. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham charged that this is the President's backdoor way of emptying out Guantanamo without having to close it. Please. Who are the Gitmo detainees? This is a serious matter. Years of internal deliberations have gone into this, according to my sources. That's why the White House needs to make it clear why the swap was a matter so urgent that there wasn't enough time to notify the appropriate people, much less consult with them. Was Bergdahl swap legal? Depends on who you ask Understandably, there were concerns about his safety. And even given all the delicacies of revealing health issues, it's still an important matter to explain. Because right now, it looks like the lack of consultation is about one thing: the knowledge that there would be pushback. And, as one source puts it, "fighting over process is always easier than fighting over substance." In other words, it's easier to apologize than ask for permission. Now the administration has fights on both of those fronts. At least they're consistent: micromanaging foreign policy from the west wing has always been a hallmark. Not that it wins you any friends  or political support. Guess it's too late for that now. If this were Netflix, a replica of SEAL Team Six could have swooped in to the rescue, just like they did in 2011. Ironically, my sources say, the bin Laden raid itself complicated events: If Bergdahl was in Pakistan, would that inflame an already inflamed relationship due to the bin Laden raid? Was the intel good enough? Was the considerable risk worth it? Taliban video shows Bowe Bergdahl's release in Afghanistan The backdrop to all of this is that the same questions that are now being raised publicly had been raised internally for years  about what a "fair" trade would include. As CNN's Elise Labott has reported, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was skeptical of early plans to trade five Gitmo prisoners for Bergdahl. And as my national security source adds, "people opposed the deal because it wasn't great." But, he adds, "they were also looking at a deal that would provoke negotiations with the Taliban." Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl That is not the case now. The conflict is winding down. We're leaving Afghanistan. No one left behind. Sgt. Bergdahl gets to go home. What lingers, sadly, is the unsettling reality that five really, really bad guys have a ticket home, too. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/opinion/borger-bergdahl-swap-motives-mistakes-excuses/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Bergdahl's release: Motives, mistakes and excuses - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:43:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In all of the fallout surrounding the prisoner exchange for Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, let's get these points out of the way: the case for leaving no soldier behind is a sound and important one  a way to keep faith with our troops. There is historical precedent for the exchange of prisoners. President Obama likely has the legal authority he needs, as commander in chief, to order a swap. Did the president notify Congress  as in the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee  in a timely manner beforehand? No. Had this been a matter of some internal controversy for years precisely because of the nature of any trade? Yes. Was the White House aware of the questionable circumstances of Bergdahl's disappearance? Yes. Should National Security Adviser Susan Rice have thought twice before describing him as someone who "served with honor and distinction." Yes, because the jury is most definitely out on that one. Should the President have held a triumphal newser in the Rose Garden to announce the release and swap? Um, no. Absolutely no. "The point is, you have to get him home as a way to keep faith with our troops," says a former senior national security official. "Everybody gets that. Then you deal with him and the circumstances of his departure." As for the ceremony in the President's backyard? "That was surreal," he says. "Truly." Opinion: Five tough ethics issues in Bergdahl swap In a way, it's all surreal and hard to unspool. So let's start at the policy end of all of this. This is a president whose legacy is up for grabs. One important piece: ending two wars (Iraq and Afghanistan) and capturing and killing Osama bin Laden. "This (The Bergdahl swap) is tying up loose ends," says another former senior national security source. "The administration made the decision not to leave any people there, so that was that." The Republicans, of course, argue that a virtually 100% withdrawal is wrong. That the President should have instead planned for a gradual withdrawal, depending on circumstances on the ground. Then he might not have felt such pressure to clear the decks and cut this deal. Or do a victory lap in the Rose Garden. It is, they charge, pure politics. Then Obama played right into their hands. Trouble is, Republicans are playing at it, too. They're tweeting their joy about Bergdahl's release one minute, then un-tweeting it the next. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham charged that this is the President's backdoor way of emptying out Guantanamo without having to close it. Please. Who are the Gitmo detainees? This is a serious matter. Years of internal deliberations have gone into this, according to my sources. That's why the White House needs to make it clear why the swap was a matter so urgent that there wasn't enough time to notify the appropriate people, much less consult with them. Was Bergdahl swap legal? Depends on who you ask Understandably, there were concerns about his safety. And even given all the delicacies of revealing health issues, it's still an important matter to explain. Because right now, it looks like the lack of consultation is about one thing: the knowledge that there would be pushback. And, as one source puts it, "fighting over process is always easier than fighting over substance." In other words, it's easier to apologize than ask for permission. Now the administration has fights on both of those fronts. At least they're consistent: micromanaging foreign policy from the west wing has always been a hallmark. Not that it wins you any friends  or political support. Guess it's too late for that now. If this were Netflix, a replica of SEAL Team Six could have swooped in to the rescue, just like they did in 2011. Ironically, my sources say, the bin Laden raid itself complicated events: If Bergdahl was in Pakistan, would that inflame an already inflamed relationship due to the bin Laden raid? Was the intel good enough? Was the considerable risk worth it? Taliban video shows Bowe Bergdahl's release in Afghanistan The backdrop to all of this is that the same questions that are now being raised publicly had been raised internally for years  about what a "fair" trade would include. As CNN's Elise Labott has reported, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was skeptical of early plans to trade five Gitmo prisoners for Bergdahl. And as my national security source adds, "people opposed the deal because it wasn't great." But, he adds, "they were also looking at a deal that would provoke negotiations with the Taliban." Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl That is not the case now. The conflict is winding down. We're leaving Afghanistan. No one left behind. Sgt. Bergdahl gets to go home. What lingers, sadly, is the unsettling reality that five really, really bad guys have a ticket home, too. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/opinion/borger-bergdahl-swap-motives-mistakes-excuses/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Bergdahl's release: Motives, mistakes and excuses - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:43:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In all of the fallout surrounding the prisoner exchange for Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, let's get these points out of the way: the case for leaving no soldier behind is a sound and important one  a way to keep faith with our troops. There is historical precedent for the exchange of prisoners. President Obama likely has the legal authority he needs, as commander in chief, to order a swap. Did the president notify Congress  as in the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee  in a timely manner beforehand? No. Had this been a matter of some internal controversy for years precisely because of the nature of any trade? Yes. Was the White House aware of the questionable circumstances of Bergdahl's disappearance? Yes. Should National Security Adviser Susan Rice have thought twice before describing him as someone who "served with honor and distinction." Yes, because the jury is most definitely out on that one. Should the President have held a triumphal newser in the Rose Garden to announce the release and swap? Um, no. Absolutely no. "The point is, you have to get him home as a way to keep faith with our troops," says a former senior national security official. "Everybody gets that. Then you deal with him and the circumstances of his departure." As for the ceremony in the President's backyard? "That was surreal," he says. "Truly." Opinion: Five tough ethics issues in Bergdahl swap In a way, it's all surreal and hard to unspool. So let's start at the policy end of all of this. This is a president whose legacy is up for grabs. One important piece: ending two wars (Iraq and Afghanistan) and capturing and killing Osama bin Laden. "This (The Bergdahl swap) is tying up loose ends," says another former senior national security source. "The administration made the decision not to leave any people there, so that was that." The Republicans, of course, argue that a virtually 100% withdrawal is wrong. That the President should have instead planned for a gradual withdrawal, depending on circumstances on the ground. Then he might not have felt such pressure to clear the decks and cut this deal. Or do a victory lap in the Rose Garden. It is, they charge, pure politics. Then Obama played right into their hands. Trouble is, Republicans are playing at it, too. They're tweeting their joy about Bergdahl's release one minute, then un-tweeting it the next. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham charged that this is the President's backdoor way of emptying out Guantanamo without having to close it. Please. Who are the Gitmo detainees? This is a serious matter. Years of internal deliberations have gone into this, according to my sources. That's why the White House needs to make it clear why the swap was a matter so urgent that there wasn't enough time to notify the appropriate people, much less consult with them. Was Bergdahl swap legal? Depends on who you ask Understandably, there were concerns about his safety. And even given all the delicacies of revealing health issues, it's still an important matter to explain. Because right now, it looks like the lack of consultation is about one thing: the knowledge that there would be pushback. And, as one source puts it, "fighting over process is always easier than fighting over substance." In other words, it's easier to apologize than ask for permission. Now the administration has fights on both of those fronts. At least they're consistent: micromanaging foreign policy from the west wing has always been a hallmark. Not that it wins you any friends  or political support. Guess it's too late for that now. If this were Netflix, a replica of SEAL Team Six could have swooped in to the rescue, just like they did in 2011. Ironically, my sources say, the bin Laden raid itself complicated events: If Bergdahl was in Pakistan, would that inflame an already inflamed relationship due to the bin Laden raid? Was the intel good enough? Was the considerable risk worth it? Taliban video shows Bowe Bergdahl's release in Afghanistan The backdrop to all of this is that the same questions that are now being raised publicly had been raised internally for years  about what a "fair" trade would include. As CNN's Elise Labott has reported, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was skeptical of early plans to trade five Gitmo prisoners for Bergdahl. And as my national security source adds, "people opposed the deal because it wasn't great." But, he adds, "they were also looking at a deal that would provoke negotiations with the Taliban." Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl That is not the case now. The conflict is winding down. We're leaving Afghanistan. No one left behind. Sgt. Bergdahl gets to go home. What lingers, sadly, is the unsettling reality that five really, really bad guys have a ticket home, too. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/opinion/lauder-eisenhower-d-day-anguish/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Eisenhower's 'soul-racking' D-Day decision - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 05:33:08 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Val Lauder, a former reporter for the Chicago Daily News and lecturer at the school of journalism and mass communication at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is the author of "The Back Page: The Personal Face of History" The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- That year it was a Tuesday. June 6. My father turned on the radio that morning, as usual. This time, we heard: "Under the command of Gen. Eisenhower, Allied naval forces, supported by strong air forces, began landing Allied armies this morning on the northern coast of France." D-Day. "The Longest Day." A hinge of history. Up there with The Battle of Hastings and Waterloo. The day Allied forces landed in Normandy, 70 years ago this week -- June 6, 1944 -- and began the push that led to the defeat of the Nazi regime in Germany. I was 18, had graduated from Stephens Junior College that May and was not due at Northwestern University and the Medill School of Journalism until September. It being my summer break, I could keep listening after my father, an accountant who had recently accepted a job in Chicago, went off to work, as did my mother, a librarian. President Roosevelt came on the radio and offered a prayer. Then Eisenhower's recorded reading of the order of the day (that troops in LSTs and transports heard over loudspeakers) was broadcast. It would take several personal and professional tumblers falling into place for me to not only meet Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower 2 years later but to also have the good fortune to preside at his press conference with the student press club I had created and the Chicago Daily News sponsored. January 18, 1947. Wearing two battle ribbons on his waist-length "Eisenhower jacket," the supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces in Europe stood to my left, facing 165 student editors and photographers from high school and college newspapers throughout the greater Chicago area gathered in the Drake Hotel. Dressed in their Sunday best, pencils poised, notebooks open, they were seated on straight-back chairs set out in rows of 10 on either side of a center aisle. Ike stood at the end of the center aisle, about three feet in front of me. I introduced him. The questions were far ranging, from his opinion on having a school for diplomats similar to West Point and Annapolis to confirming he had planned to attend Annapolis until he discovered he'd passed the age limit for entrance. Asked if he thought another war was inevitable, he said that if he did, he'd quit. Pessimists who held theories like that were like commanders who sent their troops into battle assuring them they would be slaughtered. Adding, momentarily forgetting his audience, that such an attitude was a hell of a note. We passed the allotted 30 minutes. When we passed 45 minutes, and he could no longer ignore his aide's anything-but-subtle glances at his watch, Ike said he would take three more questions. I do not remember the first two. Nor will I ever forget the last one. Myrna Ephraim of Bowen High School, having been recognized, moved to the edge of the center aisle, several rows back. "Gen. Eisenhower, what was the greatest decision you had to make during the war?" He did not answer immediately, as he had with the other questions. Clasping his hands behind his back, he began to pace: slowly, deliberately, back and forth. When at last he spoke, his tone as somber and measured as his step, he publicly revealed the decision for the first time. Early in the planning, the Allies realized a landing at Cherbourg was essential. They needed a port where they could land troops, supplies and equipment. But Utah Beach off Cherbourg was only a strip of sand. A deep lagoon stretched between the sandy beach and the mainland. Only a few causeways provided access from the beach to the mainland. The men landing on the beach would have to cross those causeways to reach the mainland, to push inland and fan out. "To ensure the success of the Allied landings in Normandy," he explained, "it was imperative that we prevent the enemy from bringing up reinforcements. All roads and rail lines leading to the areas of fighting on and around the beaches had to be cut or blocked. If reinforcements were allowed to reach the areas of fighting there, in our first, precarious attempts to get a foothold on the continent, the whole operation could be jeopardized. The landings might fail." Also early in the planning, it was agreed that the 82nd and 101st Airborne Divisions would drop onto the mainland in the hours before the main force hit the beaches, to secure the causeways for the men who would be coming ashore. "The success of the landings on the beaches," Ike said, reaching the end of the first row, starting back, "might well turn on the success of the paratroopers behind the lines." But, May 30, just six days before the scheduled landings (at that time, June 5), a trusted aide and personal friend came to him, deeply concerned about the airborne landing. Later, I learned it was British Air Chief Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, who had been assigned to the Allied forces, with the title of Air Commander in Chief, which made him the air commander of the Allied invasion. He was apologetic about how late it was, so close to the jump-off time. But, he'd gone over it, and over it, and over it, and felt it simply would not succeed. The casualties would be too great. He pleaded with Ike. "Casualties to glider troops would be 90% before they ever reached the ground," he said. "The killed and wounded among the paratroopers would be 75%." That would mean an unbearably high percentage of the 18,000 men who would drop into the darkness over Nazi-occupied France would become casualties. This would mean the survivors would be too few in number to succeed in their crucial mission of seizing -- and holding -- the causeways. "The man was absolutely sincere, absolutely convinced it wouldn't work," Ike said. "As a highly respected, capable officer, I trusted his judgment. I told him I'd think it over." Opinion: Exploding the myths of the Normandy landings Four days before the invasion, Ike was still undecided. If his aide and friend was right, the mission would not only fail, but also more than 13,000 Allied soldiers would be killed or wounded -- in vain. Yet if the airborne troops did not seize and hold the causeways, as planned, the enemy would control those narrow strips of land the Allies needed to reach the mainland. The Germans would be able to keep the main landing force pinned down on the beaches until reinforcements could be brought up. Against such reinforcements, the men on the beaches would face unconscionable odds. "I couldn't permit that, either." Weighing the situation, he went back over the planning. The operation had been approved many months before, and only after the most careful review. It had then been subjected to scrutiny, on several occasions, as the day for the invasion drew near. And he could never get away from the fact that if the airborne troops did not seize and secure the causeways, the men landing on the beaches would have little or no chance. The risk must be taken. His step slowing, turning to face the students, he said: "I let the order stand." With the words, he seemed to shed the burden. The tension went out of the room like air out of a balloon. "The airborne boys did their job." Relief, bordering on elation, crept into his tone. "And, I am happy to say, the casualties were only 8%." With a courteous nod to the students, a parting handshake to me, he signaled the waiting aide, who fell in, a step behind, as they strode to the door. At the time, I was struck by the drama, the intensity of his account. It was never a military case study for future lectures at West Point. It was a heartfelt concern for the men in the airborne divisions and the men in the landing craft headed for the beaches As he put it in his book, "Crusade in Europe": "It would be difficult to conceive of a more soul-racking problem." How difficult and soul-racking I chanced to see in the coming years. Fall 1948.  Kay Summersby, the Women's Army Corps captain who had been Ike's driver in England during the war, was in town to promote her book. During our student press conference, one of the questions prompted her to say Ike had taken everyone by surprise when, on the eve of D-Day, he came out of his office and told her to drive him out to the airfields. He wanted to see the boys off. "We," she said in "Eisenhower Was My Boss", "covered three separate airfields before night fell." One was Newbury, where "10 weeks before, we had witnessed the spectacular demonstration by the 101st Airborne troops. This time, Ike had to look these troops straight in the eye, knowing that he, only he, was responsible if they and the men of the 82nd Airborne encountered sheer disaster." When he stepped out of the car he ordered "the four-star license plate to be covered, that only one staff officer accompany him on his rounds. This was no time for ceremony." One of the iconic photos of World War II is the one of Ike at the airfield that night, talking with the men of the 101st Airborne Division, the paratroopers' faces blackened with night paint, camouflage webbing on their helmets, about to board the waiting planes. "He circulated among the men," Stephen Ambrose wrote in "D-Day, June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II," "ostensibly to boost their morale, but as Lt. Wallace Strobel of the 502nd PIR noted, 'I honestly think it was his morale that was improved by being with us.'" In light of his "soul-racking" decision, Ambrose's account takes on added resonance. "Eisenhower told Capt. L. 'Legs' Johnson, 'I've done all I can, now it is up to you.' He told a group of enlisted men not to worry, that they had the best equipment and leaders in the world, with a vast force coming in behind them. A sergeant from Texas piped up, 'Hell, we ain't worried, General. It's the Krauts that ought to be worrying now.'" Summer 1952.  The year both the Republican and Democratic national conventions were held in Chicago. The morning after he accepted the Republican nomination for president, Ike startled aides when he emerged from his suite at the Blackstone Hotel -- as he had from his headquarters in England on the eve of D-Day -- but, this time, no driver. He walked up South Michigan Avenue to the Congress Hotel. Ike went to the ballroom, where a luncheon was in progress, a reunion of the 82nd Airborne Division. When the men caught sight of him, they were on their feet, cheering, whistling. He moved to the lectern at the head table, beaming -- the famous Eisenhower smile -- as he acknowledged the welcome. I saw it all in my living room when the Chicago TV station I was watching broke into its newscast. The TV camera zoomed in. A tear moved down Ike's cheek. Then another. My mother, watching with me, said, "He's crying. Why is he crying?" I said, "He's looking out at a roomful of men he once thought he could be sending to their death." Spring 1955. In Pennsylvania, as best I recall. During a two-year, 17-state lecture tour, talking about my years at the Chicago Daily News, including Ike's dramatically recounted greatest decision. When I'd finished and the audience was filing out, a woman approached me. She said she now better understood something she'd wondered about through the years, and thought I'd be interested. She had been a Red Cross worker in England during the war, one of those at the airfield passing out doughnuts and hot coffee to the paratroopers that night when Ike drove up. She gave him a cup of coffee, too. But, then, she noticed his hand was shaking so badly the coffee threatened to spill over -- could burn him -- and eased the cup out of his hand. D-Day veteran: I don't want them to be forgotten Secret D-Day training mission cost hundreds of lives Opinion: D-Day: Exploring the myths of the Normandy landings Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/opinion/lauder-eisenhower-d-day-anguish/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Eisenhower's 'soul-racking' D-Day decision - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 05:33:08 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Val Lauder, a former reporter for the Chicago Daily News and lecturer at the school of journalism and mass communication at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is the author of "The Back Page: The Personal Face of History" The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- That year it was a Tuesday. June 6. My father turned on the radio that morning, as usual. This time, we heard: "Under the command of Gen. Eisenhower, Allied naval forces, supported by strong air forces, began landing Allied armies this morning on the northern coast of France." D-Day. "The Longest Day." A hinge of history. Up there with The Battle of Hastings and Waterloo. The day Allied forces landed in Normandy, 70 years ago this week -- June 6, 1944 -- and began the push that led to the defeat of the Nazi regime in Germany. I was 18, had graduated from Stephens Junior College that May and was not due at Northwestern University and the Medill School of Journalism until September. It being my summer break, I could keep listening after my father, an accountant who had recently accepted a job in Chicago, went off to work, as did my mother, a librarian. President Roosevelt came on the radio and offered a prayer. Then Eisenhower's recorded reading of the order of the day (that troops in LSTs and transports heard over loudspeakers) was broadcast. It would take several personal and professional tumblers falling into place for me to not only meet Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower 2 years later but to also have the good fortune to preside at his press conference with the student press club I had created and the Chicago Daily News sponsored. January 18, 1947. Wearing two battle ribbons on his waist-length "Eisenhower jacket," the supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces in Europe stood to my left, facing 165 student editors and photographers from high school and college newspapers throughout the greater Chicago area gathered in the Drake Hotel. Dressed in their Sunday best, pencils poised, notebooks open, they were seated on straight-back chairs set out in rows of 10 on either side of a center aisle. Ike stood at the end of the center aisle, about three feet in front of me. I introduced him. The questions were far ranging, from his opinion on having a school for diplomats similar to West Point and Annapolis to confirming he had planned to attend Annapolis until he discovered he'd passed the age limit for entrance. Asked if he thought another war was inevitable, he said that if he did, he'd quit. Pessimists who held theories like that were like commanders who sent their troops into battle assuring them they would be slaughtered. Adding, momentarily forgetting his audience, that such an attitude was a hell of a note. We passed the allotted 30 minutes. When we passed 45 minutes, and he could no longer ignore his aide's anything-but-subtle glances at his watch, Ike said he would take three more questions. I do not remember the first two. Nor will I ever forget the last one. Myrna Ephraim of Bowen High School, having been recognized, moved to the edge of the center aisle, several rows back. "Gen. Eisenhower, what was the greatest decision you had to make during the war?" He did not answer immediately, as he had with the other questions. Clasping his hands behind his back, he began to pace: slowly, deliberately, back and forth. When at last he spoke, his tone as somber and measured as his step, he publicly revealed the decision for the first time. Early in the planning, the Allies realized a landing at Cherbourg was essential. They needed a port where they could land troops, supplies and equipment. But Utah Beach off Cherbourg was only a strip of sand. A deep lagoon stretched between the sandy beach and the mainland. Only a few causeways provided access from the beach to the mainland. The men landing on the beach would have to cross those causeways to reach the mainland, to push inland and fan out. "To ensure the success of the Allied landings in Normandy," he explained, "it was imperative that we prevent the enemy from bringing up reinforcements. All roads and rail lines leading to the areas of fighting on and around the beaches had to be cut or blocked. If reinforcements were allowed to reach the areas of fighting there, in our first, precarious attempts to get a foothold on the continent, the whole operation could be jeopardized. The landings might fail." Also early in the planning, it was agreed that the 82nd and 101st Airborne Divisions would drop onto the mainland in the hours before the main force hit the beaches, to secure the causeways for the men who would be coming ashore. "The success of the landings on the beaches," Ike said, reaching the end of the first row, starting back, "might well turn on the success of the paratroopers behind the lines." But, May 30, just six days before the scheduled landings (at that time, June 5), a trusted aide and personal friend came to him, deeply concerned about the airborne landing. Later, I learned it was British Air Chief Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, who had been assigned to the Allied forces, with the title of Air Commander in Chief, which made him the air commander of the Allied invasion. He was apologetic about how late it was, so close to the jump-off time. But, he'd gone over it, and over it, and over it, and felt it simply would not succeed. The casualties would be too great. He pleaded with Ike. "Casualties to glider troops would be 90% before they ever reached the ground," he said. "The killed and wounded among the paratroopers would be 75%." That would mean an unbearably high percentage of the 18,000 men who would drop into the darkness over Nazi-occupied France would become casualties. This would mean the survivors would be too few in number to succeed in their crucial mission of seizing -- and holding -- the causeways. "The man was absolutely sincere, absolutely convinced it wouldn't work," Ike said. "As a highly respected, capable officer, I trusted his judgment. I told him I'd think it over." Opinion: Exploding the myths of the Normandy landings Four days before the invasion, Ike was still undecided. If his aide and friend was right, the mission would not only fail, but also more than 13,000 Allied soldiers would be killed or wounded -- in vain. Yet if the airborne troops did not seize and hold the causeways, as planned, the enemy would control those narrow strips of land the Allies needed to reach the mainland. The Germans would be able to keep the main landing force pinned down on the beaches until reinforcements could be brought up. Against such reinforcements, the men on the beaches would face unconscionable odds. "I couldn't permit that, either." Weighing the situation, he went back over the planning. The operation had been approved many months before, and only after the most careful review. It had then been subjected to scrutiny, on several occasions, as the day for the invasion drew near. And he could never get away from the fact that if the airborne troops did not seize and secure the causeways, the men landing on the beaches would have little or no chance. The risk must be taken. His step slowing, turning to face the students, he said: "I let the order stand." With the words, he seemed to shed the burden. The tension went out of the room like air out of a balloon. "The airborne boys did their job." Relief, bordering on elation, crept into his tone. "And, I am happy to say, the casualties were only 8%." With a courteous nod to the students, a parting handshake to me, he signaled the waiting aide, who fell in, a step behind, as they strode to the door. At the time, I was struck by the drama, the intensity of his account. It was never a military case study for future lectures at West Point. It was a heartfelt concern for the men in the airborne divisions and the men in the landing craft headed for the beaches As he put it in his book, "Crusade in Europe": "It would be difficult to conceive of a more soul-racking problem." How difficult and soul-racking I chanced to see in the coming years. Fall 1948.  Kay Summersby, the Women's Army Corps captain who had been Ike's driver in England during the war, was in town to promote her book. During our student press conference, one of the questions prompted her to say Ike had taken everyone by surprise when, on the eve of D-Day, he came out of his office and told her to drive him out to the airfields. He wanted to see the boys off. "We," she said in "Eisenhower Was My Boss", "covered three separate airfields before night fell." One was Newbury, where "10 weeks before, we had witnessed the spectacular demonstration by the 101st Airborne troops. This time, Ike had to look these troops straight in the eye, knowing that he, only he, was responsible if they and the men of the 82nd Airborne encountered sheer disaster." When he stepped out of the car he ordered "the four-star license plate to be covered, that only one staff officer accompany him on his rounds. This was no time for ceremony." One of the iconic photos of World War II is the one of Ike at the airfield that night, talking with the men of the 101st Airborne Division, the paratroopers' faces blackened with night paint, camouflage webbing on their helmets, about to board the waiting planes. "He circulated among the men," Stephen Ambrose wrote in "D-Day, June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II," "ostensibly to boost their morale, but as Lt. Wallace Strobel of the 502nd PIR noted, 'I honestly think it was his morale that was improved by being with us.'" In light of his "soul-racking" decision, Ambrose's account takes on added resonance. "Eisenhower told Capt. L. 'Legs' Johnson, 'I've done all I can, now it is up to you.' He told a group of enlisted men not to worry, that they had the best equipment and leaders in the world, with a vast force coming in behind them. A sergeant from Texas piped up, 'Hell, we ain't worried, General. It's the Krauts that ought to be worrying now.'" Summer 1952.  The year both the Republican and Democratic national conventions were held in Chicago. The morning after he accepted the Republican nomination for president, Ike startled aides when he emerged from his suite at the Blackstone Hotel -- as he had from his headquarters in England on the eve of D-Day -- but, this time, no driver. He walked up South Michigan Avenue to the Congress Hotel. Ike went to the ballroom, where a luncheon was in progress, a reunion of the 82nd Airborne Division. When the men caught sight of him, they were on their feet, cheering, whistling. He moved to the lectern at the head table, beaming -- the famous Eisenhower smile -- as he acknowledged the welcome. I saw it all in my living room when the Chicago TV station I was watching broke into its newscast. The TV camera zoomed in. A tear moved down Ike's cheek. Then another. My mother, watching with me, said, "He's crying. Why is he crying?" I said, "He's looking out at a roomful of men he once thought he could be sending to their death." Spring 1955. In Pennsylvania, as best I recall. During a two-year, 17-state lecture tour, talking about my years at the Chicago Daily News, including Ike's dramatically recounted greatest decision. When I'd finished and the audience was filing out, a woman approached me. She said she now better understood something she'd wondered about through the years, and thought I'd be interested. She had been a Red Cross worker in England during the war, one of those at the airfield passing out doughnuts and hot coffee to the paratroopers that night when Ike drove up. She gave him a cup of coffee, too. But, then, she noticed his hand was shaking so badly the coffee threatened to spill over -- could burn him -- and eased the cup out of his hand. D-Day veteran: I don't want them to be forgotten Secret D-Day training mission cost hundreds of lives Opinion: D-Day: Exploring the myths of the Normandy landings Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/opinion/borger-bergdahl-swap-motives-mistakes-excuses/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Bergdahl's release: Motives, mistakes and excuses - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:43:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In all of the fallout surrounding the prisoner exchange for Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, let's get these points out of the way: the case for leaving no soldier behind is a sound and important one  a way to keep faith with our troops. There is historical precedent for the exchange of prisoners. President Obama likely has the legal authority he needs, as commander in chief, to order a swap. Did the president notify Congress  as in the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee  in a timely manner beforehand? No. Had this been a matter of some internal controversy for years precisely because of the nature of any trade? Yes. Was the White House aware of the questionable circumstances of Bergdahl's disappearance? Yes. Should National Security Adviser Susan Rice have thought twice before describing him as someone who "served with honor and distinction." Yes, because the jury is most definitely out on that one. Should the President have held a triumphal newser in the Rose Garden to announce the release and swap? Um, no. Absolutely no. "The point is, you have to get him home as a way to keep faith with our troops," says a former senior national security official. "Everybody gets that. Then you deal with him and the circumstances of his departure." As for the ceremony in the President's backyard? "That was surreal," he says. "Truly." Opinion: Five tough ethics issues in Bergdahl swap In a way, it's all surreal and hard to unspool. So let's start at the policy end of all of this. This is a president whose legacy is up for grabs. One important piece: ending two wars (Iraq and Afghanistan) and capturing and killing Osama bin Laden. "This (The Bergdahl swap) is tying up loose ends," says another former senior national security source. "The administration made the decision not to leave any people there, so that was that." The Republicans, of course, argue that a virtually 100% withdrawal is wrong. That the President should have instead planned for a gradual withdrawal, depending on circumstances on the ground. Then he might not have felt such pressure to clear the decks and cut this deal. Or do a victory lap in the Rose Garden. It is, they charge, pure politics. Then Obama played right into their hands. Trouble is, Republicans are playing at it, too. They're tweeting their joy about Bergdahl's release one minute, then un-tweeting it the next. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham charged that this is the President's backdoor way of emptying out Guantanamo without having to close it. Please. Who are the Gitmo detainees? This is a serious matter. Years of internal deliberations have gone into this, according to my sources. That's why the White House needs to make it clear why the swap was a matter so urgent that there wasn't enough time to notify the appropriate people, much less consult with them. Was Bergdahl swap legal? Depends on who you ask Understandably, there were concerns about his safety. And even given all the delicacies of revealing health issues, it's still an important matter to explain. Because right now, it looks like the lack of consultation is about one thing: the knowledge that there would be pushback. And, as one source puts it, "fighting over process is always easier than fighting over substance." In other words, it's easier to apologize than ask for permission. Now the administration has fights on both of those fronts. At least they're consistent: micromanaging foreign policy from the west wing has always been a hallmark. Not that it wins you any friends  or political support. Guess it's too late for that now. If this were Netflix, a replica of SEAL Team Six could have swooped in to the rescue, just like they did in 2011. Ironically, my sources say, the bin Laden raid itself complicated events: If Bergdahl was in Pakistan, would that inflame an already inflamed relationship due to the bin Laden raid? Was the intel good enough? Was the considerable risk worth it? Taliban video shows Bowe Bergdahl's release in Afghanistan The backdrop to all of this is that the same questions that are now being raised publicly had been raised internally for years  about what a "fair" trade would include. As CNN's Elise Labott has reported, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was skeptical of early plans to trade five Gitmo prisoners for Bergdahl. And as my national security source adds, "people opposed the deal because it wasn't great." But, he adds, "they were also looking at a deal that would provoke negotiations with the Taliban." Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl That is not the case now. The conflict is winding down. We're leaving Afghanistan. No one left behind. Sgt. Bergdahl gets to go home. What lingers, sadly, is the unsettling reality that five really, really bad guys have a ticket home, too. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/kourtney-kardashian-pregnant/index.html	entertainment	Kourtney Kardashian reportedly pregnant with third baby - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 10:49:37 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/travel/most-popular-theme-parks-world/index.html	travel	World's top 25 amusement parks - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 12:33:13 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- What's the most popular theme park in the world? Hint: It's got Mickey Mouse ears. This Disney theme park had more than 18 million visits last year, an increase of nearly 6% over 2012, according to a report released Tuesday. (Click through the gallery to check out the top 25 parks in the world.) Amusement park attendance is on the rise around the world. There were 215 million visits to the top 25 theme and amusement parks worldwide, up 4.3% from 2012, according to the Themed Entertainment Association and AECOM global attractions attendance report. The index lists the 25 most visited amusement and theme parks worldwide, based on attendance figures compiled by AECOM. Disney dominated the list. Disney parks in the United States, Europe and Asia made up nine of the top 10 parks and held 11 of the top 25 spots. Universal Studios' theme parks came in a distant second with just one park in the top 10 list and four in the top 25 list. SeaWorld held two spots. Visits to North American and Asian parks keep increasing, and not just at the top 25 parks: There were 135 million visits to the top 20 North American theme/amusement parks last year, up 2.7% from 2012. There were 117 million visits to the top 20 Asian theme/amusement parks last year, up 7.5% from 2012.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/us/seattle-hero-profile/index.html	us	Who is the hero student who pounced on the Seattle gunman? - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 07:39:24 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Jon Meis' reported habit of carrying pepper spray may have saved students' lives after a man opened fire at a Seattle college. The shooter had just wounded three people Thursday, one of whom died. He was reloading his shotgun when Meis, a volunteer security guard, saw an opening. He doused the gunman with the spray and tackled him to the ground. Other students at Seattle Pacific University piled on and took the weapon away from suspected shooter Aaron Ybarra, 26, police said. Officers are convinced the bloodshed at the Christian school would have been worse had Meis and the others not intervened. Meis appeared shaken, at moments on the verge of tears, when ambulances arrived to tend to the wounded. Medics put him on a stretcher and took him to a hospital to check him over. Police would not give out his name, but one of his friends was quick to point him out to CNN affiliate KOMO and pour out his gratitude. "I could have been one of these people that was injured or in critical condition," said Meis' friend Patrick Maguire. "A lot of (students) were in that building, and he stopped him in the lobby. He didn't get any farther than that. I'm grateful for him, yeah." Meis, an engineering student, has a reputation for keeping a low profile, not seeking attention, The Seattle Times reported. He is known as a devout Christian and an excellent student. His sister told the newspaper that the family wasn't commenting for the moment. But Meis hasn't been able to dodge the social media limelight, which has plastered his name and photos across the Internet with emphatic kudos. "Hero" was the common refrain. "Jon Meis is a hero. I have no words for his courage," user Molli Elizabeth posted to Twitter. "Jon Meis, You are my hero! Greater love has no one than this: to lay down one's life for one's friends. (Jn 15:13)," Tweeter Shane Bengry posted with reference to a Bible verse. Meis got through the scuffle without serious physical injury. He let out sighs of relief as medical technicians guided him to a stretcher and social media began making his name synonymous with courage. His longtime roommate Ryan Salgado told The Seattle Times about the pepper spray. He said Meis regularly carries it, just in case. CNN's Rick Martin contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/justice/seattle-campus-shooting/index.html	crime	Three shot at Seattle Pacific University before student tackles gunman - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 12:47:27 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Briana Clarke heard popping sounds on a Seattle college campus Thursday, she thought the source must be something innocent -- bursting balloons. Then she saw a classmate running frantically, saying someone had been shot. A gunman had opened fire at Seattle Pacific University, killing one person and wounding two more before he was tackled by a student security guard, Seattle police said. The gunman was reloading a shotgun when the tackler, working as a building monitor, used pepper spray and knocked him down, police Capt. Chris Fowler told reporters. "Once on the ground, other students jumped on top of them and subdued the shooter," he said. The suspect, 26-year-old Aaron Ybarra, is not a student at the school, police said. They say they think he acted alone, but the investigation is continuing. Police did not disclose a motive. CNN affiliate KOMO identified the student security guard who tackled him as Jon Meis. Meis carries pepper spray as a precautionary measure, his roommate Ryan Salgado told the The Seattle Times. The report described Meis as a devout Christian and dedicated student. Could have been worse At Otto Miller Hall, the building where the shots were fired, Clarke saw students covered in blood. "When I walked outside and saw someone down, that was disturbing seeing a bunch of bullets around," she said. "Seeing my friend outside being treated, that was hard to swallow." She thought that she could have been a victim. Police are convinced the shooter would have harmed more people had those around him not intervened. "This story is not about an evil act but about the people that actually lived through this scenario and assisted each other when things were pretty tragic," said Seattle police Assistant Chief Paul McDonagh. The suspect was armed with a shotgun, a knife and more ammunition, he said. Pellet wounds The shooting began in the foyer of the building, which houses the university's science, math and engineering departments, when the gunman confronted three people and shot them, Fowler said. A 19-year-old man was declared dead at Harborview Medical Center. A 20-year-old woman was in critical condition and a 24-year-old man was in satisfactory condition, she said. He suffered pellet wounds to the neck and chest, a police statement said. A fourth person was taken to the hospital with minor injuries. Officials immediately locked down the campus. Blood on floor and walls University President Daniel J. Martin told CNN affiliate KCPQ he turned on a monitor to view security camera images from Otto Miller Hall after he was alerted to the shooting. "The students acted without regard for their own safety," he said, his voice breaking with emotion. Jillian Smith was taking a math test when she learned the campus was on lockdown. She said she kept taking the test until she heard police officers yelling. "After we found out by social media what was going on, people were crying and everything," Smith told CNN affiliate KOMO. Police escorted students out of the building, where she saw blood on the floor and walls in the foyer. Blake Oliveria was in a class when he heard the gunshots. He said he removed his shoes in case he had to run but stayed in the classroom until police arrived to escort students out. "I saw blood ... on the ground," he told CNN. "There were two or three big (pools) and some small ones scattered throughout the hallway." Questions Mary Jones' daughter attends Seattle Pacific but was unharmed. Still, she wonders how safe colleges will be without laws regulating access to guns. "Where are the controls to keep our children from purchasing a handgun or any other kind of weapon? And does that take government controls to keep that from happening? I don't know," she told KOMO. "There has to be a greater understanding of what that weapon can do and the pain it can inflict on another person's life." Seattle Pacific is a Christian university with a student population of 4,270. It is in Seattle's Queen Anne neighborhood. The school has canceled classes all day Friday, it said on its website. Who is the hero student who pounced on the Seattle gunman? CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Suzanne Presto and Joe Sutton contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/showbiz/wheel-of-fortune-gaffe/index.html	entertainment	'Wheel of Fortune' contestant blows 'Surf City' puzzle - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 10:24:11 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It might not be the biggest blunder in "Wheel of Fortune" history, but it just might be podium worthy. Recently a contestant named Stephen rang in first during one of the Toss Ups, where one by one, letters are revealed until a contestant buzzes in and takes a guess. The category was Song Lyrics. "S--F C--Y -ERE WE COME." Stephen's guess was "Surf Clay Where We Go." Where? Go? Really? To which host Pat Sajak said, bluntly, "Uh, no," while probably thinking, "What the bleep is surf clay?" We're guessing Stephen is not a fan of Jan and Dean and not familiar with the classic "Surf City, Here We Come." TMZ tracked down Stephen, last name Dryer, who told the website that in his rush to buzz in he panicked and forgot the category. As Dryer pointed out, it's not like he flubbed three puzzles like a student did in April during a college week episode. That man, Julian Batts, even blew one round in which every letter could be seen. He mispronounced Achilles, to the benefit of the next contestant. Dyer told TMZ he was going to take the $7,200 he won and use part of it to go on a cruise. We hope they don't run into any surf clay.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/cnnheroes-buzby/index.html	world	For Holocaust survivors, letters are lifesaving - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 05:07:41 EDT 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- When Zane Buzby traveled into remote parts of Eastern Europe to find the birthplace of her grandparents, she knew it would be a life-changing journey. She could never have imagined how much. She met a professor who asked her to bring supplies to eight elderly Holocaust survivors in Belarus. Soon after she crossed the border, she found herself in another world. "It was as if I'd gone back in time 100 years. There were no cars, only horse-drawn wagons, little slanted huts," Buzby recalled. "It was something out of 'Fiddler on the Roof.' " Buzby was appalled to find the survivors living alone in shacks, suffering in abject poverty. They often had to choose between buying food, medicine or paying for heat. Back home in Los Angeles, Buzby was unable to forget them. "I don't speak Russian, so I put a heart on a piece of paper, put a Jewish star in it and put $20 bills in an envelope," said the 65-year-old television director. "I just wanted them to know I cared." Soon the survivors began writing back, sharing their stories from the war. Using a translator, Buzby began corresponding with them, and the professor sent her names of others in need. "Suddenly there was a list -- 50, 80, 100 people," she said. For seven years, Buzby carried out this work with help from family and friends. In 2008, she formed the Survivor Mitzvah Project, a nonprofit that provides financial aid and friendship to 2,000 elderly Holocaust survivors throughout Eastern Europe. The lingering impact of the war Many of the Jews in Eastern Europe were not sent to concentration camps. Their villages were instead targeted by Nazi mobile units, which massacred thousands. To survive, people fled into the woods. Do you know a hero? Nominations are open for 2014 CNN Heroes "As a child, I ran from the killing squads three times," wrote Ruven from Lithuania. "Even now, I still dream that I am running." After the war, those who returned to their villages had little or no extended family left. Many have not been able to get reparations intended for Holocaust survivors. Now in their 80s and 90s, they find themselves struggling once again to survive. Since 2001, Buzby said, she and her group have distributed more than $2.5 million in direct aid to members of what she has dubbed the "unluckiest generation." Some of them have endured multiple conflicts and have lost family members to Chernobyl or were left penniless after the Soviet Union disbanded. "But through it all, they have a great philosophy on life," she said. "For them, holding a hand, sharing a moment, that means everything." A lifeline of letters Buzby sends a few hundred dollars a year each to most of the people on her roster, along with a letter about her life. She has realized that the personal connection is something these people crave the most. "The money is lifesaving, but the letters are equally lifesaving," said Buzby. "These people are living often without any parents, siblings, friends. They're isolated." "Your letter for me is like a little ray of sunshine in the darkness," wrote Rakhil from Ukraine. "I am no longer alone in my apartment. The letter with your photographs is on the table," wrote Fira from Ukraine. After the recession hit America in 2008, survivors reiterated how much the letters meant. "I got so many letters that started with, 'We heard that your country is broke. If you can't send us any more money, we understand. Just please keep writing,' " Buzby said. Buzby receives more than 900 letters a year. Each one is quickly read by a Russian speaker in her office. If it does not describe an urgent situation for the group to address, the letter gets e-mailed to volunteer translators. Then Buzby's return letter is translated into Russian and sent out with the funds. Once or twice a year, Buzby also visits some of the people she helps. "We have definitely created what I call a 'family of strangers,' " she said. "I have all these grandparents praying for me." Buzby is desperate to preserve the survivors' stories. She is working on a documentary about their experiences and hopes to donate her archive of nearly 10,000 letters to a museum or university. "They've trusted me with their stories, so I need to make sure (their stories) live longer than I do," she said. Buzby mostly wants to help them live out their final days in dignity. "We can really write a more hopeful final chapter to the Holocaust, one of kindness and compassion," she said. "What a way to give them what they finally deserve at the end of their lives." Want to get involved? Check out the Survivor Mitzvah Project website at www.survivormitzvah.org and see how to help.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/showbiz/tv/orange-is-the-new-black-season-2/index.html	entertainment	'Orange is the New Black' season 2: Five things to expect - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 10:10:16 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- "Orange Is the New Black," and it's the new face of comedy, too. Since its debut in July 2013, the original Netflix series has become the poster child for the way many of us now watch TV -- in large doses, on our own time, and often on something other than an actual television set. But before "Orange Is the New Black" became the hottest topic for anyone with Internet access, it was a languishing concept from "Weeds" producer Jenji Kohan, who was struggling to find a home for the series based on a book by Piper Kerman. As viewers learned in season one, "Orange Is the New Black" follows a well-bred New Yorker named Piper Chapman (Taylor Schilling), who gets sent to a Connecticut women's prison on an old drug charge that involved smuggling money for ex-girlfriend Alex Vause (Laura Prepon), who just happens to be serving time in the same facility. While there, Chapman gets indoctrinated into prison life with a series of scenes that have become infamous, like a bloody tampon given to her in a sandwich and a cellmate urinating on the floor. Chapman, along with characters like Red (Kate Mulgrew), a grim Russian cook; Sophia (Laverne Cox), a transgender former firefighter; Crazy Eyes (Uzo Aduba), who's initially fixated on Chapman; and Pennsatucky (Taryn Manning), a disturbed drug addict, bring this dark comedy to life in a way that wouldn't have been out of place on pay-cable networks like HBO or Showtime. Except neither network wanted it. And then, in walked Netflix. With the company's image changing from being a source of mail-ordered movies to a streaming hub of entertainment, the service happily snapped up Kohan's dark comedy. As the writer/producer recalled to The New York Times, Netflix "pretty much bought it in the room." The company's eagerness has paid off in full, as "Orange Is the New Black" has become the service's most-watched original series, according to an October letter to shareholders, and is already renewed for a third season. But first, we have to prepare for season two's arrival on Friday. Though cast members and Kohan are tight-lipped about what's to come, here are a few tidbits on what to expect: 1. Nudity. "I love graphic sex, the more sex the better," Kohan said at an industry lunch in April. And the show has certainly put some of its performers on display right from showering get-go. This year may include male nudity, Kohan said, with a caveat: "I don't think it's going to be erect." 2. Triangle tension. You know that romantic triangle between prison guards Pornstache (Pablo Schreiber) and Bennett (Matt McGorry) and Daya (Dascha Polanco)? It's going to get messier. "There's kind of a tectonic shift happening between Pornstache, Bennett and Daya by the big point of the second season, and I think you might be surprised who you may be siding with in that triumvirate," Schreiber told EW. 3. A rising writer. Larry's had some success with his column about having a fiance in prison, but his relationship with her is under strain. "If you're going to keep Larry involved, there needs to be some sort of change, and there are some in store," Jason Biggs, who plays Larry, told EW. 4. More romance and back story. Big Boo (Lea DeLaria) and Nicky (Natasha Lyonne) are going to have a "sex contest," reports TV Guide. We'll find out more about Red's (Kate Mulgrew) Russian gangster past. And watch out for a key insect. 5. A change of the guard? A number of "Orange" stars have commitments to other shows. Natasha Lyonne (Nicky) is doing an NBC show produced by Amy Poehler, and Schreiber is working on an HBO comedy. Laura Prepon (Alex) told the Daily Beast she will be in just four episodes in season two, though she's indicated she'd be willing to come back full-time for season three. Kohan is already thinking ahead. "If I could keep cycling people through and bringing in new people, the show could go on forever," she told EW.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/europe/obama-putin-france-d-day/index.html	world	Obama, Putin come face-to-face in France at D-Day anniversary lunch - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:11:05 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A much anticipated encounter between President Barack Obama and his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, came on the sidelines of a lunch held Friday to mark the 70th anniversary of D-Day. It's not known what the pair -- whose relationship has been strained by Russia's actions in Ukraine -- discussed. But the conversation, described by Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes as informal, lasted 10 to 15 minutes. Speculation had been brewing that the two leaders would meet, despite apparently elaborate steps taken by Francois Hollande to avoid a tense encounter. On Thursday evening, the French president dined with Obama before hosting a separate dinner with Putin. Talk about awkward dinner parties. The pair were also seated well apart for the lunch. With Hollande and the queens of Britain and Denmark between them, the two seemed unlikely to have to converse unless they wanted to. The D-Day events have also brought Putin and Ukrainian President-elect Petro Poroshenko together in their first face-to-face meeting. They talked briefly before the leaders went to the D-Day lunch, although it was not clear what they discussed. German Chancellor Angela Merkel stood with them as they spoke. Putin and Poroshenko shook hands before their informal exchange, Hollande's office told CNN. No interaction was seen between Obama and Putin at that point. The leaders will all attend an international ceremony at Sword Beach on Friday afternoon, one of the beaches where the historic invasion was staged. 'Lane of international law' Speaking Thursday in Brussels, Belgium, Obama said he and Putin were likely to cross paths in France, although no formal meeting was planned. Obama said then that if they spoke, he would give Putin the same message on Ukraine that he has given him in phone calls over past weeks and in his public statements. Putin "has a chance to get back into a lane of international law," he said. Obama said Putin could start by recognizing Poroshenko, stopping the flow of weapons over the border into Ukraine and ceasing Russian support for pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine. Putin, in an interview with French television station TF1, also did not discount the possibility of meeting with Obama. "As for my relations with Barack Obama, I have no reason whatsoever to believe he is not willing to talk to the President of Russia," he said. "But ultimately, it is his choice. I am always ready for dialogue, and I think that dialogue is the best way to bridge any gaps." READ: D-Day veteran: I don't want them to be forgotten READ: D-Day: Exploring the myths of the Normandy landings READ: Eisenhower's 'soul-racking' D-Day decision  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/politics/rice-cnn-interview/index.html	politics	Susan Rice defends Bergdahl comments, calls his service 'honorable' - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 10:02:56 EDT 2014	Colleville-sur-Mer, FRANCE (CNN) -- President Barack Obama's national security adviser said Friday that her full-throated praise of Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl was appropriate given the former Taliban prisoner's willingness to go to war for his country -- despite questions about whether or not he deserted his Army colleagues. Susan Rice, who on Sunday said Bergdahl served the United States with "honor and distinction," told CNN in an interview that she was speaking about the fact the Idaho native enlisted and went to Afghanistan in the service of his country. "I realize there has been lots of discussion and controversy around this," Rice said. "But what I was referring to was the fact that this was a young man who volunteered to serve his country in uniform at a time of war. That, in and of itself, is a very honorable thing." The Obama administration has come under fire for the decision to trade five Taliban prisoners previously held at Guantanamo Bay for Bergdahl, who was held for nearly five years. Some soldiers who served with Bergdahl have claimed he deserted his post in Afghanistan. An Army-led investigation, which was conducted in the months after Bergdahl disappeared in 2009, found he left the outpost deliberately and on his own free will, according to a military official who was briefed on the report. There was no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted, because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials couldn't do without talking to the soldier. The military said it is investigating the matter further. Rice said Friday that it was essential for the military to hear Bergdahl's side of the story before coming to conclusions about what prompted his capture by the Taliban. The six soldiers at center of Bergdahl debate "This is a young man whose circumstances we are still going to learn about," she said. "He is, as all Americans, innocent until proven guilty. He's now being tried in the court of public opinion after having gone through enormously traumatic five years of captivity." If the military finds reason to believe Bergdahl deserted his Army comrades, consequences will be delivered, Rice said. "But in the meantime, let's remember this is a young man who volunteered to serve his country. He was taken as a prisoner of war. He suffered in captivity," she continued. "He's now trying to begin the process of recovery. Let's let that happen. And then let's know the facts including his side of the story, and then we can make a judgment." Rice's comments last weekend weren't the first time she prompted criticism over an appearance on one of Washington's Sunday talk shows. In September 2012, she appeared on several programs following the attack on the American diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya -- and asserted the incident was prompted by a spontaneous protest against an anti-Muslim video made in the United States. The administration later acknowledged the attack was a terrorist assault on the U.S. compound. The "Susan Rice talking points" have become a political flashpoint, spurring congressional investigations, administration explanations, and -- potentially -- a major headache for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton if she runs for president in 2016. Rice has said she was simply providing the best information the administration had at the time -- and on Friday, she contended that just because the information she provided that day turned out to be inaccurate doesn't mean she's willfully misleading Americans. "I'm upfront with the American people and I always do my best on behalf of my country and I do my best to tell the facts as I know them," she said. In the case of Benghazi, Rice said she "provided the best information that the U.S. government had at the time. "Parts of it turned out to be wrong," she said. "I regret that the information I was provided was wrong, that I delivered to the American people. That doesn't make me a liar. That makes me a public servant trying to say what we knew at the time." CNN's Matt Hoye, Laura Bernardini and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/politics/bowe-bergdahl-release/index.html	politics	Obama had the right to swap Taliban for Bergdahl, White House says - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 04:06:22 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Lawmakers were left out of the loop on Bowe Bergdahl for a reason: One small leak apparently would have gotten him killed. That's what Obama administration officials told senators at a classified briefing this week in defense of the decision to not notify Congress about the deal to free the captured Army sergeant in exchange for releasing five Taliban figures held at Guantanamo Bay. Though the briefing was classified, the administration made sure word of the new rationale for its decision to go it alone got out. Sen. Angus King of Maine, an independent who caucuses with Democrats, told CNN that administration briefers made clear both the threat to Bergdahl from a leak -- and that he could talk publicly about that point. "They had intelligence that, had even the fact of these discussions leaked out, there was a reasonable chance Bowe Bergdahl would have been killed," King said. No evidence for desertion The question of what legislators should have known -- and when -- has helped propel a broader controversy over whether bringing home a soldier accused by comrades of deserting his unit was worth releasing the alleged terrorist leaders. An Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after Bergdahl's 2009 disappearance concluded that he left his outpost deliberately and on his own free will, according to a U.S. military official briefed on the report. But there has been no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted, because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials couldn't do without talking to the soldier. Some soldiers involved in operations to find Bergdahl have said at least six soldiers were killed searching for him. But a U.S. official told CNN that Pentagon and Army officials have looked at the soldiers' claims, and "right now there is no evidence to back that up." Bergdahl backlash surprises White House Wanderlust and escape Some have voiced conjecture that Bergdahl sought to join the Taliban, but he seemed eager to get away from them. He may have tried to run away two times, a U.S. official said. In 2011, he reportedly succeeded. His captors stopped keeping such a close eye on him, and Bergdahl used the opportunity to bolt, a Taliban source said, according to CNN's Jake Tapper. He survived on his own for three days, according to an account in the Daily Beast. Then the Taliban found him hiding in a trench he'd dug with his bare hands. "He fought like a boxer," the Taliban source said, but he lost, and his captors dragged him back in shackles. The occasion of his capture was at least the third time Bergdahl strayed out of bounds. His wanderlust had become a serious problem, according to the Army investigation. The first time he disappeared was during basic training in Irwin, California, when he slipped away to watch the sun set. After arriving in Afghanistan, he went exploring again, fellow soldiers said, taking a stroll outside the wired perimeter of his outpost. Under partisan fire Republicans who once called for Bergdahl to be freed, now say the swap released hardened Taliban commanders who could attack American forces and interests. But despite their criticism and anger from lawmakers over being left out of the loop, when the President decided to make the deal, the White House has argued Obama had the legal authority and moral high ground to do what he did. "I make absolutely no apologies for making sure we get a young man back to his parents," Obama told reporters Thursday at the end of the G7 summit in Belgium. But the new rationale behind the decision has enhanced the perception of a White House scrambling to respond to the backlash. Originally, the administration had given lawmakers a different line of reasoning, arguing that Bergdahl's deteriorating health dictated fast, uncomplicated action. The administration reiterated that point in this week's briefing. Senators were shown the so-called proof of life video of Bergdahl, which the administration has said shows the soldier in deteriorating health. "He could barely talk. He couldn't focus his eyes," said Sen. King. The video had an effect on the room full of senators, he said. Other senators who saw the video at Wednesday's classified briefing said Bergdahl looked drugged, not sick. But King noted "there was a dead silence in the room" after it played. Bergdahl 'life' video shown, senators still skeptical Recovery and accusations The accusations of desertion continue to hang over Bergdahl's head, as he recovers in a U.S. military hospital in Germany. He is conversing in English and has become more engaged in treatment, a Pentagon spokesman said. Former Army Staff Sgt. Justin Gerleve, Bergdahl's former squad leader, told CNN's "The Lead With Jake Tapper" that he believes Bergdahl is at least partly to blame for the deaths of soldiers who went to find him. "I can't really say I blame Bergdahl to fullest extent, but if he wouldn't have deserted us, these soldiers very well could have been in a different place at a different time," he said. Gerleve also said he heard radio intercepts that an American "was running around looking for people to speak English and wanted to seek out the Taliban." History of a deal Consideration of a deal with the Taliban dates back several years but failed to gain traction when the possibility first emerged in 2011, according to sources. A Defense Department official has said that Robert Gates, Obama's first defense secretary, opposed the idea back then, as did his successor, Leon Panetta, and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Sen. King noted that the Taliban figures involved in the swap may have been freed soon in any event. They were being held in Guantanamo as enemy combatants, he said. Legally, after hostilities in Afghanistan end, they would have to be set free. It was an opportune moment to use them as bargaining chips for Bergdahl. Bob Bergdahl's journey to save his son The Gitmo detainees swapped for Bergdahl: Who are they? Jim Acosta and Tom Cohen reported and wrote from Washington, and Ben Brumfield reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Jake Tapper and Dana Bash contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/politics/bowe-bergdahl-release/index.html	politics	Obama: I don't apologize for Bergdahl swap - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 04:54:30 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- If word had leaked out, Bowe Bergdahl would have been killed. That's what Obama administration officials told senators at a classified briefing Wednesday in defense of the decision to not notify Congress about the deal to free the captured Army sergeant in exchange for releasing five Taliban figures held at Guantanamo Bay. The question of what legislators should have known and when has helped propel a broader controversy over whether bringing home a soldier accused by comrades of deserting his unit was worth releasing the alleged terrorist leaders. Under fire from conservative Republicans for making the deal, as well as politicians from both parties for not notifying Congress as required by the National Defense Authorization Act, the White House has argued President Barack Obama had the legal authority and moral high ground to do both. "I make absolutely no apologies for making sure we get a young man back to his parents," Obama told reporters Thursday at the end of the G7 summit in Belgium. "... We had a prisoner of war whose health had deteriorated and ... we saw an opportunity and we seized it, and I make no apologies for that." Asked whether he was surprised at the backlash, Obama said "I'm never surprised by controversies that are whipped up in Washington," and he reiterated what he called a time-honored U.S. principle that "we do not leave anybody wearing the American uniform behind." "... We don't condition whether we make the effort to get them back." 'Dead silence' Meanwhile, the administration made sure word got out of the threat to Bergdahl's life if any information on the swap went public ahead of time. Sen. Angus King of Maine, an independent who caucuses with Democrats, told CNN that administration briefers made clear both the threat to Bergdahl from a leak and that he could talk about it. "They had intelligence that, had even the fact of these discussions leaked out, there was a reasonable chance Bowe Bergdahl would have been killed," King said. "And that was one of the pieces of information that we learned yesterday that gave it some credence in terms of why it had to be kept quiet so long." A Senate aide took that further, telling CNN on condition of not being identified that senators were told in Wednesday's classified briefing that the United States had credible information that leaked word of the deal meant death for Bergdahl. The new details enhanced the perception of a White House scrambling to respond to congressional anger over the exchange announced Saturday in a Rose Garden ceremony at the White House with Obama and Bergdahl's parents. As part of the classified briefing, senators were shown the so-called proof of life video of Bergdahl, which the administration has said shows the soldier in deteriorating health. "He could barely talk. He couldn't focus his eyes," King said, adding the video had an effect on the room full of senators. Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, was among those who saw the video. "I think he looked a little strange to me. It was hard to tell. It was very brief. He was up close," he told CNN. "I don't expect anybody who's being held in prison to look like they're in great shape, to tell you the truth." Other senators who saw the video at Wednesday's classified briefing said Bergdahl looked drugged, not sick. But King noted "there was a dead silence in the room" after it played. Bergdahl 'life' video shown, senators still skeptical Price too high for critics Conservative critics call the price for Bergdahl's release too high, noting that his Army colleagues say he deserted his post in Afghanistan. The Obama administration and Democratic supporters have pushed back, saying Bergdahl's life was under threat in captivity. An Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after Bergdahl's 2009 disappearance concluded that he left his outpost deliberately and on his own free will, according to a U.S. military official briefed on the report. The official spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the information There was no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted, because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials couldn't do without talking to the soldier. Some soldiers involved in operations to find Bergdahl have said at least six soldiers were killed searching for him. But a U.S. official told CNN that Pentagon and Army officials have looked at the claims, and "right now there is no evidence to back that up." At the same time, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told reporters that he did not know of specific circumstances or details of soldiers dying as a result of the efforts to find Bergdahl. Still, former Army Staff Sgt. Justin Gerleve, Bergdahl's former squad leader, told CNN's "The Lead With Jake Tapper" that he believes Bergdahl is at least partly to blame for the soldiers' deaths. "I can't really say I blame Bergdahl to fullest extent, but if he wouldn't have deserted us, these soldiers very well could have been in a different place at a different time," he said. Gerleve also said he heard radio intercepts that an American "was running around looking for people to speak English and wanted to seek out the Taliban." The accusations of Bergdahl's desertion caused some GOP legislators to question whether the United States should have exchanged Taliban terror suspects for him. "It's very interesting to me that they would be willing to release five extraordinarily dangerous Taliban members in exchange for this soldier who apparently left his post," Republican Sen. Susan Collins of Maine told CNN on Thursday. Bergdahl's showing sign of improvement Bergdahl is resting and showing signs of improvement as he recovers at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, according to Pentagon spokesman Col. Steve Warren. While Berghal is conversing in English and described as being more engaged in treatment, he has not yet spoken to his parents, Warren said. In Washington, the back-and-forth over the Bergdahl release took on increasingly political overtones, with Republicans who once called for getting him out saying the swap released hardened Taliban commanders who could attack American forces and interests. Consideration of such a deal dates back several years but failed to gain traction when the possibility first emerged in 2011, according to sources. Bergdahl backlash surprises White House A Defense Department official familiar with the thinking of Robert Gates told CNN that Obama's first defense secretary opposed the idea back then, as did his successor, Leon Panetta, and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. With combat operations in Afghanistan set to end no later than December, the U.S. thinking changed. The imminent conclusion of hostilities raises issues about the status of war captives, with adversaries traditionally exchanging prisoners. King noted that the Taliban figures involved in the swap may have been freed soon in any event. End of war was a factor "There is a reasonable legal argument that these five guys would have had to be released any way within the next year under the law of war," he said. "They were being held in Guantanamo as enemy combatants. Under the law of war, when hostility cease, enemy combatants have to be released." According to King, "This may have been the last chance to get Bergdahl where these guys had true value to us as a negotiating tool because if they had to be released anyway, we'd be in the same situation without Bowe Bergdahl home." At the same time, King said the Obama administration erred by failing to notify Congress ahead of time about the swap. "There could have been notification that would have been somewhat more secure than a widespread notification to Congress. I think that's where there were mistakes made," King said. Bob Bergdahl's journey to save his son The Gitmo detainees swapped for Bergdahl: Who are they? Jim Acosta and Tom Cohen reported and wrote from Washington, and Chelsea J. Carter reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Elise Labott, Barbara Starr, Holly Yan, Jim Sciutto and Jim Acosta contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/justice/georgia-courthouse-shooting/index.html	crime	Report: Shooting at north Georgia courthouse - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 11:08:41 EDT 2014	Atlanta (CNN) -- A sheriff's deputy was shot at a courthouse in north Georgia's Forsyth County on Friday morning, CNN affiliate WSB reported, citing police. Forsyth County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Robin Regan didn't confirm the report to CNN, but said the office did respond to a "shots fired" call Friday morning, and that the scene "is now secure." A witness, Alan Neal, said he was at an intersection in front of the courthouse in Cumming when he heard gunfire. After he heard "two or three pops," he saw deputies fire on someone in front of the courthouse, Neal said. Neal said he saw people tending to someone who appeared to be injured, and police dragging someone else at the side of the courthouse. Cumming is about 35 miles northeast of downtown Atlanta.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/justice/virginia-portsmouth-naval-security-incident/index.html	crime	Navy seals off Virginia military hospital in hunt for stabbing suspect - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 09:33:02 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Security forces sealed off a major naval hospital in Portsmouth, Virginia, and ordered patients and staff to shelter in place Friday morning as they searched for a man suspected of stabbing a service member on the post. The incident occurred Friday morning in front of the private military store, or exchange, at the base, which is called on Naval Support Activity Hampton Roads, Portsmouth Annex, according to Navy spokesman Jim Moir. Authorities provided no details of the condition of the stabbed service member. Naval Medical Center Portsmouth said on its Facebook page that security forces were looking for a man wearing tan cargo pants and a white shirt. "BASE ON LOCKDOWN: An incident has occurred on base that has caused security forces to close the gates. All staff and patients are to shelter in place. Monitor this page for further updates," base officials said on Facebook. Despite reports on social media of a shooting at the base, Moir said there was no indication gunshots had been fired or a shooter was on the base. About 4,300 military and civilian personnel work at the medical center, which is across the Elizabeth River from Norfolk. It is the oldest continuously operated hospital in the Navy, according to its website. It serves about 420,000 military members, families and retirees in the Hampton Roads region, home to one of the largest concentrations of military power in the world. CNN's Mary Kay Mallonee and Barbara Starr in Washington contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/canada-shooting/index.html	world	Canada shooting: Suspect in killing of 3 officers captured - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 12:37:32 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The Canadian town of Moncton, New Brunswick, slipped out of a tense fear and into mourning overnight with the arrest of a man suspected of killing three police officers and wounding two others. 'I'm done," suspect Justin Bourque yelled as he gave up, a nearby resident who watched the 24-year-old's arrest through a window told CNN partner CBC. He was unarmed, although police did find weapons nearby, said Royal Canadian Mounted Police Superintendent Marlene Snowman, the officer in charge of the agency's Codiac office. At a Friday morning news conference, authorities offered no explanation for the rampage. Charges were being prepared and would be filed later in the day, Snowman said. RCMP Assistant Commissioner Roger Brown, commanding officer of the agency's New Brunswick division, identified the slain officers as Constables David Ross, 32, Fabrice Georges Gevaudan, 45, and Douglas James Larche, 40. "On Wednesday night, we lost three incredible members of our organization, and I can't dig deep enough to explain the sadness that we all feel," Brown said, his voice breaking at times. Shortly after Bourque's arrest, barricades tumbled as residents on lockdown since the shooting slowly gathered on the streets. "It's hard to imagine that we can go back and turn the page without having a sense of the great loss we've suffered," Mayor George Leblanc of Moncton told CTV. "Moncton is such a beautiful, warm community ... I know this community has a tremendous spirit, and we will get through this." Arrested in a backyard Michelle Thibodeau told CBC that the suspect was captured near her home in Moncton. "There were trucks going by really slowly as well as cop cars surrounding my house, so we knew they were looking directly around my house," she said. "Suddenly, one of the SWAT trucks stopped and unloaded officers, and they proceeded to go to my backyard." While there, they yelled for the suspect to surrender. He was hiding behind a row of trees, Thibodeau said. "They were screaming for about five minutes and they had their guns loaded. And eventually Justin came out with his hands up and he yelled, 'I'm done.' And they collected him and brought him to my front yard, where he lay sprawled out. " Police surveyed her yard for weapons before taking him away, she told CBC. "My heart dropped in my stomach. We were all shaking and panicky. It was a very scary situation." Her parents, brother, his girlfriend and a dog all watched the scene unfold from a window. At the time of his arrest, the suspect was wearing the same camouflage uniform shown in the pictures, according to Thibodeau. The only difference was his hair was "dripping wet," she said. Last social media post? A Facebook page purported to belong to Bourque has many posts with pro-gun photos and a few anti-police memes. There is also a photo where two men pose with shotguns in the snow. It was posted on February 25, six days after the Facebook page was created, and is used as the profile picture. In what appears to be his final post, the page's author used the words of a song by the metal group Megadeath. You say you've got the answers, well who asked you anyway? Ever think maybe it was meant to be this way? Don't try to fool us, we know the worst is yet to come. I believe my kingdom will come. Rare shootings Moncton has 140,000 people and is 150 kilometers (93 miles) northeast of Saint John. "It's a lot. Especially for a city like this, where you wouldn't expect something to happen like this," resident Jonathan Hurshman told CTV. "You see it all in the States, and you think, 'No, that could never happen here' -- and sure enough, it happens here." There were no homicides in Moncton in 2011 and 2012, and the average number of homicides per year between 2006 and 2011 was one. In 2012, the homicide rate in Canada was 1.6 per 100,000. In the United States, it was 4.7 per 100,000, according to United Nations statistics. CNN's Rick Martin and Tina Burnside contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/asia/north-korea-detained-american/index.html	world	North Korea: We've detained another American - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 12:23:46 EDT 2014	Seoul, South Korea (CNN) -- North Korea announced Friday that it has detained a U.S. citizen who it says entered the secretive country as a tourist in April and broke the law. The news brings the number of Americans believed to be held in the communist nation to three. The North's state-run Korean Central News Agency reported that authorities are investigating a man who it said violated the law by acting "contrary to the purpose of tourism." In a brief English-language article, KCNA gave the American's name as Jeffrey Edward Fowle, saying he arrived as a tourist on April 29. It didn't give any other details. Citing unidentified diplomatic sources, the Japanese news agency Kyodo reported that Fowle was part of a tour group and that he was detained in mid-May after allegedly leaving a Bible in a hotel where he had been staying. The U.S. State Department said it was "aware of reports that a third U.S. citizen was detained in North Korea." But it declined to provide any further information, saying it couldn't share details about specific cases without written consent from an individual. "There is no greater priority for us than the welfare and safety of U.S. citizens abroad," a State Department official said. Other Americans held North Korea said in late April it was holding a different American man, who it claimed came the country seeking asylum. He tore his tourist visa and shouted that "he would seek asylum" and "came to the DPRK (North Korea) after choosing it as a shelter," KCNA said. KCNA identified that man as Miller Matthew Todd, who it says was taken into custody on April 10. The U.S. State Department said at the time that it was aware of the report and had been in touch with Sweden, which represents American interests in North Korea, about the matter. It declined to disclose any further information. North Korea is also holding Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary who was sentenced to 15 years hard labor in 2013 by a court that said he had carried out acts aimed at bringing down the regime of leader Kim Jong Un. Although North Korea contains a number of state-controlled churches, the totalitarian regime forbids independent religious activities, viewing them as potential threats to its authority. Other Americans detained in the North have later been released. Last year, Pyongyang freed Merrill Newman, an 85-year-old veteran of the Korean War who was on an organized private tour in the country, after holding him for several weeks. READ: North Korea says it has American in custody READ: Kenneth Bae worried about his health in North Korean camp CNN's K.J. Kwon reported from Seoul, and Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Gabe LaMonica contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/showbiz/casey-kasem-hospitalized/index.html	entertainment	Casey Kasem alert but in critical condition - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 08:52:58 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Renowned radio personality Casey Kasem is in critical condition at a hospital in western Washington, a spokesman for St. Anthony Hospital told CNN in a written statement Thursday. "Mr. Kasem is alert and appears comfortable at this time," Scott Thompson, a spokesman for the facility in Gig Harbor added. The 82-year-old former host of "American Top 40" and "Casey's Top 40" is receiving antibiotics through IVs, blood pressure support medicine and care for his bed sores, Thompson said. Kasem was admitted to the hospital Sunday after one of his daughters and an ambulance crew retrieved him from a home where he and his wife were staying with friends. "Any further updates on Mr. Kasem's condition will be at the discretion and approval of his children," Thompson said. Danny Deraney, a representative of daughter Kerri Kasem, told CNN that members of the family, including Casey Kasem's brother, were flying to Washington. When asked if they feared Casey Kasem might die, Deraney said it could be his last moments or he could get better. Deraney clarified that he never meant that Kasem's health was failing as was reported by several media outlets. On Thursday, a message appeared on the Twitter account of Deraney PR, saying that Kasem was in "stable condition." A patient can be listed as both critical and stable, if his condition is poor but not deteriorating further. The radio icon has been at the center of a family feud between Jean Kasem, his wife of 34 years, and his three children from his first marriage. Kerri Kasem; her sister, Julie; and their brother, Mike Kasem, have contended since last year that Jean Kasem has prevented the three siblings from visiting their father. Kasem has Lewy body disease, the most common type of progressive dementia after Alzheimer's, and has been bed-ridden for some time. He had been at a facility in Santa Monica, California, before Jean Kasem took him to Washington state after his daughter Kerri Kasem won temporary conservatorship over her father's care. Last week, a Washington court granted Kerri Kasem the right to visit her father one hour a day and to have him examined by a doctor. On Friday afternoon, a Kitsap County judge will continue the hearing and get an update on the situation, Deraney said. Deraney expected the judge to rule on whether Jean Kasem would have to let Kerri Kasem have more input on where her father lives and who cares for him. Casey Kasem, who was also the voice of Shaggy in the cartoon "Scooby-Doo" and an announcer for NBC, retired in 2009. Kasem's daughter wins additional powers in court CNN's Jane Caffrey contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/travel/indianapolis-vintage-race-cars/index.html	travel	Indianapolis 500 track hosts "largest U.S. gathering of race cars." - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:18:50 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Attention all who drool over head-turning, rubber-burning cars: Here's your candy store. This weekend the world famous Indianapolis Motor Speedway hosts two days of races between hundreds of vintage vehicles spanning the past 100 years. They're billing the Brickyard Vintage Racing Invitational as the "largest gathering of race cars in the United States." Al Unser Jr., Buddy Lazier, Parnelli Jones and Bobby Unser. Ever heard of these guys? They're Indy 500 winners. They'll be there -- on the track and behind the wheel. The whole weekend threatens to be a 100-mph-plus parade of eye-popping race cars that would quite literally blow your hair back. But let's be frank: This is a celebration of a time when race cars were, well, a helluva lot more interesting to look at. Right? If you've never seen the lines of Johnny Rutherford's 1980 Indy-winning "Yellow Submarine" Chaparral, do yourself a favor. Enjoy some eye candy. Same with Jones' 1963 winning car "Ol' Calhoun," which took the checkered flag as it crossed Indy's brick start/finish line. Respect Calhoun's awesome side-pipe and its snazzy front-end air scoops. Both cars are expected to come out to play this weekend. Related: Hunter-Reay wins Indy 500 The 1960s, '70s and '80s offered a smorgasbord of car designs born from mechanical grit. These are cars that were truly unique. Some cars were shaped like wedges, some like tubes. Wings in the front. Wings in the back. Compare them to today's designs -- both Indy and NASCAR. Nowadays there's a lot of what Mark Dill calls, "sameness." "There's not just a hunger -- there's almost a starvation for design now among auto racing fans," says Dill, of the Sportscar Vintage Racing Association. "They loved looking at the variety of cars, and this event is going to provide that in spades." The weekend is sponsored by the association -- a race car restoration and preservation group dedicated to "rolling art." "Some people collect art," their website says. "We race it." In addition to the open-wheel Indy racers, the event plans to showcase Corvettes, Mustangs and Camaros from the '60s and '70s. Also invited: cars made by Ferrari, Porsche, Jaguar and MG. Related: Art museum features dream concept cars Related: Kurt Busch drives in two races on same day While car designs have remained much the same, other aspects of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway have been shifting gears during the past 20 years. The hallowed facility has embraced new ideas like no other time in its history. "It's changed a lot," says Indianapolis Motor Speedway historian Donald Davidson, who's been a part of the Indy 500 since the mid-1960s. Take for example, the Snake Pit -- known during the 1970s as a scandalous den of race-fan debauchery located in the infield. It made headlines in 1974 when dozens of naked race fans climbed the fence and "streaked" down Turn One. After that, officials "very subtly phased the Snake Pit out," Davidson recalls. Five years ago, the speedway opened a safer, sanctioned, "new-school" Snake Pit inside Turn Three, complete with international DJs, dancing, food trucks and volleyball. This weekend, overnight camping in the infield will be available for the first time, according to the speedway's video. Related: Cuba races its classic cars Privately owned by Indiana's Hulman family for nearly 70 years, the track executed an ambitious plan in the '90s to embrace other forms of auto racing, including Grand Prix and NASCAR. Indy's Brickyard 400 NASCAR event sparked a new tradition at the century-old track. In 1996, winner Dale Jarrett and crew chief Todd Parrott spontaneously got down on their knees and kissed Indy's brick start-finish line. Within a year or two, everybody was kissing the bricks. It transformed into a major photo op for both the NASCAR and the Indianapolis 500. Related: IndyCar technology can protect toddlers Some people who find themselves bored with race car design blame the rules. The IndyCar league requires teams to use the same chassis and engines. Critics say that limits car designs, and the sport suffers. So-called "aero kits" are supposed to spice things up a bit. Beginning in 2015, Chevrolet and Honda will offer IndyCar teams special body kits that include "distinct aerodynamic configurations" designed to boost speed and "improve the diversity of the fan experience," according to IndyCar. Will any of today's race cars earn their way into the museums and vintage shows of tomorrow? A Facebook friend of Dill's predicted that museums will largely remain the "same as they are today because there isn't anything new to show," Dill says. Some fear that the enthusiasm to "ooh" and "ahh" over the same car painted 25 different ways just won't be there. "That may be a little hyperbolic, but it's not far off, " says Dill. "After all, it's variety that stimulates the imagination." See more CNN content about motorized vehicles at Cool Cars: Hot wheels and deals What do you think? Are today's race cars boring? What can or should be done to shake things up? Share your thoughts in the comment area below. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/26/tech/city-of-tomorrow-video-data-surveillance/index.html	tech	Central data surveillance poses serious privacy questions for millions - CNN.com	2014/05/26	Monday May 26 11:19:35 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Some residents of Oakland, California, fear their community is creating a monster. The city calls it the Domain Awareness Center, but opponents call it a "spy machine" and a potential "tool of injustice." Known as "the DAC," it's a proposed central surveillance facility where authorities can monitor the Port of Oakland and the city's airport to protect against potential terrorism. But the broader issue of centralized data surveillance poses serious privacy questions for millions of people in cities around the globe. In March, more than 100 worried Oakland residents waited past midnight to complain about it during a City Council meeting. Standing at the mic, Maya Shweiky, a self-described public school teacher and Muslim, warned lawmakers their proposal would be used to "discriminate against minorities and perpetuate racial, religious and political profiling." While the council voted on the proposal, rowdy protesters began chanting, "No! No! No! No!"  Council members have proposed expanding the DAC to add live, 24/7 data streams from closed circuit traffic cameras, police license plate readers, gunshot detectors and other sources from all over the entire city of Oakland. The danger, say opponents, is putting all these data resources into one place. "If you need to go to four different locations to track someone's movements across town, you're not going to do it unless you have a good reason," said Linda Lye of the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California. "But when you can do it with the press of a button because it's all at your fingertips, you'll end up doing it based on your idle curiosity." That, Lye said, creates a situation ripe for abuse. Oakland represents just one battleground in a fiery debate about how cities should be using so-called "Big Data," especially aggregated video and other types of surveillance. City closed-circuit TV cameras performed famously when they helped identify suspected terrorists in London in 2005 and in Boston last year. Community surveillance 2.0  But the issue has progressed far beyond the power of a few hundred video cameras and streetlight posts. Community surveillance 2.0 is now all about huge data mash-ups and incredible software that quickly sorts through mountains of information. Bottom line: A relatively small number of people have easy access to data that can track your whereabouts. In many cities, cameras mounted on police patrol cars gather video of millions of license plates. That data that can be used to track vehicles, possibly yours. Add traffic cameras to the mix. Then include cameras at bus stops, airports and train stations. How about cameras owned by schools and private security companies? The key to using all this information is the data-mining software that can easily and effectively rifle through it. Cities leading the way in video data collecting include London -- an early and strong adopter of widespread camera surveillance. The UK reportedly has 5.9 million CCTV cameras nationwide. For every 11 British citizens, there's one CCTV camera, according to Salon. Nice, France, has been expanding its surveillance center, which is projected to eventually count one camera for every 500 residents. As Rio de Janeiro hosts the World Cup and the 2016 Olympics, the city plans to make heavy use of its IBM-designed Operations Center, which combines video and other data from 30 agencies including traffic cameras, subways and even weather satellites. The network includes more than 550 cameras, 400 employees and 60 different layers of data streamed from citywide sensors. Mayor Pedro Junqueira says the center helps emergency teams warn residents in landslide-prone areas when to evacuate during heavy rainstorms. The center also takes credit for a rapid response to an emergency after a truck toppled a pedestrian bridge, blocking lanes on a major highway. Traffic was back to normal within nine hours. Read more about Rio's Operations Center In New York, a company called Placemeter is using feeds from hundreds of traffic video cameras to study 10 million pedestrian movements each day. It's using that data to help businesses learn how to market to pedestrian consumers. Placemeter also says it wants to use the data to help consumers with information such as when to visit your neighborhood coffee bar when the line is shorter. Placemeter says it doesn't store the video, nor does their analysis involve facial recognition. Watch how Placemeter uses mindblowing technology to track pedestrians Los Angeles Police use a game-changing data mining software program called Palantir that can claim the CIA as an early investor. Watch how LA police use Big Data to fight crime Lessons from Boston Last year's Boston bombings investigation showed how fast police were able to sift through mountains of surveillance data. After London's terrorist attacks in 2005, it took thousands of investigators weeks to painstakingly analyze all the CCTV footage. Eight years later in Boston, the FBI was able to release blurry images of two suspects in just three days. Read more about the pros and cons of security cameras But the facial recognition data tools used in the Boston probe wasn't perfect. Images of the two suspects were available in public data bases, but the computers that searched that data missed them, CNN's Tom Foreman reported last year. Security analysts widely admit facial recognition technology is not yet good enough to spot a suspect in a crowd. Read more about facial recognition tech Studies trying to determine the crime-fighting effectiveness of cameras have been inconclusive. According to the Surveillance Studies Centre at Queen's University in Ontario, urban surveillance systems have not been proved to have any effect on deterring criminals. But a study from the U.S. Justice Department says it depends on the circumstances. Sometimes cameras can be a "potentially useful tool for preventing crimes" the study says, "when actively monitored." Meanwhile, U.S. communities are taking steps to make their surveillance more robust. -- Chicago: When the transit authority put more cameras in rail stations, crime went down, according to CNN affiliate WGN. -- Dayton, Ohio: Police plan a new crime fighting strategy that includes 27 video cameras placed downtown, according to the Dayton Daily News.  -- Sacramento, California: The sheriff has asked homeowners and businesses to register their security cameras on the department's website. Investigators would contact camera owners located near crime scenes to search their video for potential evidence, according to CNN affiliate KCRA. Even in tiny Chadbourn, North Carolina -- population about 2,000 -- CNN affiliate WECT reports they're talking about putting a camera down at the local Piggly Wiggly grocery store. Cities looking for guidelines aimed at safeguarding surveillance centers from privacy abuses might look to The European Forum for Urban Security, which suggests putting systems into place that include mechanisms for transparency, independent oversight and accountability. Privacy safeguards are being put in place in Menlo Park, California, where leaders recently passed a law requiring all data captured by automated license plate readers to be destroyed after six months unless it's part of an investigation. The whole issue is "very explosive" and the Oakland City Council recognizes this, said the ACLU's Lye. At the March meeting, after so many residents expressed their concerns, the council voted to curtail the scope of the DAC, limiting surveillance to just the port and the airport. The vote was 5-4. "There will be efforts in the future to expand the DAC to include city-based surveillance systems," Lye warned. Oakland Mayor Jean Quan has promised to look into what privacy safeguards might be needed before trying again to expand the scope of the surveillance center. Quan, who favors the DAC, told the San Francisco Chronicle: "This is obviously an issue that is splitting the country." What do you think? Do you believe one-stop city surveillance centers threaten your privacy? Share your views with other CNN commenters below. CNN's Rachel Crane, Tom Foreman, Shasta Darlington and Heather Kelly contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/asia/vietnam-paracel-reporters-diary/index.html	world	Boats and brinksmanship in the South China Sea - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 10:20:28 EDT 2014	Vietnam Coast Guard 8003, South China Sea (CNN) -- To be at the front line of a "cold war" is, these days, a rare thing -- particularly when that front line is a remote chain of islands in the South China Sea, hundreds of kilometers from the nearest landfall. The waters around the Paracel Islands, a largely unpopulated archipelago administered by China but claimed by Vietnam, have become the "battleground" in an increasingly volatile territorial dispute between the two communist neighbors. Taking advantage of a rare opportunity to witness the spat up close, CNN traveled to the area with the Vietnamese Coast Guard. Tensions between Beijing and Hanoi ratcheted up last month, when a Chinese state-owned company deployed an oil rig in waters off the Paracels. It was set up unilaterally, without any discussion between the two sides, much to the annoyance of the Vietnamese who view it as a Chinese incursion into their sovereign waters. Since then, an increasing number of Chinese and Vietnamese ships -- both government and private fishing boats -- have crossed paths in the area with occasionally serious consequences -- not least reports of Chinese vessels using water cannon and ramming fishing boats straying too close to the oil platform. Entering the fray Our trip out to this marine flashpoint didn't start well. After days of prevarication over our departure date from the Vietnamese port of Da Nang, an official told us -- the small contingent of foreign correspondents selected for this rare press trip -- that while at sea we would confined below decks. "We don't want the Chinese to know we have journalists on board," he explained. As expressions ranged from the defeated to the incredulous, this new piece of information was hastily qualified. "Don't worry, there are plenty of windows that you can film through." We eventually did set off, hustled out to sea as the light faded over Da Nang, two and a half days later than planned. Crammed into a small supply boat heading out to the Paracel Islands, about 160 nautical miles (296 kilometers) from Vietnam's central coast, it wasn't long before the boat fell quiet and the 40 journalists -- both local and international -- took to their bunks. The crew, despite their casual, day-to-day appearance -- they only wear uniforms for official duties and, it turns out, camera appearances -- were serious, and resolute in their roles -- the first line of defense against what they see as Chinese aggression. Toeing the party line The Vietnamese refrain about these territorial waters is constant and unerring. Crew members explained to me that China is breaking the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and that the vessels are engaged in illegal activities in waters that are part of Vietnam's continental shelf. Once away from Vietnam's coast, we transferred to a bigger ship, Coast Guard 8003, one of the service's most prominent vessels, and armed with 25 mm and 14.5 mm cannon -- although I was told that they did not bring live ammunition on these patrols. Fears of being locked in below the waterline quickly faded as we were permitted on deck. It is lonely out on the water, a vast expanse stretching hundreds of miles in each direction, and around a thousand meters beneath our hull. Topside, a lone seagull followed the ship as it began its regular patrol up and down a line adjacent to the oil rig, which eventually loomed large on the horizon. The oil rig -- identified as HD-981 -- is omnipresent. It's there in everyone's minds, it's the focus of much of the conversation on the boat, and it's physically visible for most of our time at sea -- though we keep our distance. Despite our considerable distance from land, the horizon bristles with the silhouettes of dozens of ships, a mixture of Vietnamese and Chinese Coast Guard vessels and fishing fleets from both sides. The Vietnamese fishing boats are draped in red banners, which urge the Chinese to leave their territory. Dangerous dance For the most part, ships circle, warily keeping their distance, and posture at each other from afar. However, things can, and do, spill over. Hours before we arrive in the area, a Vietnamese fishing boat has been capsized, purportedly rammed by a Chinese vessel. While the Chinese insist the Vietnamese side was at fault, the captain of the sunk vessel told me days later that he was sure the boat that hit them was a Chinese Coast Guard vessel disguised as a fishing boat -- such is the level of suspicion and mistrust in this hotly-disputed body of water. In charge of CG 8003, one of the service's largest and most prominent vessels, Captain Nguyen Van Hung has around 50 men under his protection and a very visible role to play in this conflict with China. He says that there is no communication between his ship -- or any other Vietnamese vessel -- and the Chinese; no open radio channel, no way to prevent events from escalating dangerously. Our Vietnamese hosts insist they are determined to resolve the matter peacefully and in full accordance with international law, but beyond the recorded warnings blasting out of loudspeakers into the heavy, humid sea air, it is not certain what their presence hopes to achieve. Chinese attacks China's response is a little more robust, it would seem. Video taken by a CNN affiliate, among others, shows Chinese vessels attacking Vietnamese ships in the disputed area with water cannon and also ramming them. A Vietnam Television (VTV) crew embedded with CNN aboard CG 8003 says the previous vessel they were aboard, a government fisheries surveillance ship, was itself rammed by the Chinese Coast Guard. For its part, China abides by its territorial claims and blames the Vietnamese side for ratcheting tensions. "The drilling activities of this rig are within China's territorial waters. The harassment by the Vietnamese side is in violation of China's sovereign rights," said Hua Chunying, spokesperson of China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For the media contingent, there is no direct experience of Chinese aggression as we sail up and down a furrow of the South China Sea, though from time to time we discover a Chinese Coast Guard vessel stalking us, gleaming white in the unceasing sun, but they never come closer than a couple of hundred meters. We are, however, woken early one morning to see what the captain said was a Chinese coast guard vessel using water cannon on a Vietnamese fisheries surveillance vessel. At distance, the arc of the water looks graceful, but up close it is a vicious jet which can break windows, disrupt engines and cause electrical failure and even fires. Saber-rattling While Chinese ships keep their distance, they are intent on making their presence known. When the ships are close enough, we can see the deck-mounted guns have had their tarpaulins removed -- a less than subtle signal perhaps. In any event, the sight of naked weaponry only dozens of meters away is unsettling. The Chinese presence is also felt in the air. Towards the end of our embed aboard the ship, we see a surveillance plane -- which journalists aboard the coast guard vessel are assured is Chinese -- leisurely bank around our vessel time and time again, sometimes flying low and close enough for those on board to make out its markings with the naked eye. While there is no immediate threat from the aircraft, its intelligence-gathering is enough to make those on board jumpy. For now, though, tensions remain largely under wraps. But for as long as both sides maintain their equally intransigent positions, shrilly trading blame and engaging in low-level incidents of maritime thuggery, signs of this feud diminishing, and ending up as a footnote in the history books, remain distant. READ: How an oil rig sparked anti-China riots in Vietnam READ: China, Vietnam, Philippines collide amid escalating tensions  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/sport/california-chrome-triple-crown-horse-racing/index.html	iSport	California Chrome: Will long wait for Triple Crown end at Belmont? - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:51:55 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- More people have walked on the moon than have won the fabled Triple Crown of U.S. horse racing. But the scores could soon be level. The last lunar landing was in 1972, and it is 36 years since teenager Steve Cauthen became just the 11th jockey to complete the triumvirate of American Classics, on board Affirmed. On Saturday, California Chrome will attempt put his name in the record books at the Belmont Stakes amid a "will he, won't he" debate that's gripped the U.S. in recent weeks. "There's the time factor, so many big races in so little time," the horse's jockey Victor Espinoza told CNN. "Very few horses go in all three races and there are a lot of good horses in the field on Saturday that will be fresher. That's why it's so, so tough." It might be a tough ask, but California Chrome is the evens favorite for victory in front of an expected crowd of 100,000 people over a mile and a half, seeking to add to his victories in the Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes. The Triple Crown races take place over the space of just five weeks in an era when thoroughbreds tend to run no more than once a month. After his Preakness success, California Chrome became front page news after New York racing officials decided to allow the three-year-old to wear a breathing strip at Belmont Park. His owners might not have allowed him to race without a strip, which the manufacturer says allows horses to breathe more freely and reduces the risk of bleeding in the lungs during heavy exertion. California Chrome has worn the strips during his last six wins. "We've grown to train horses to run less frequently," says Dr. Larry Bramlage, a leading equine vet in the U.S. who will also cover the Belmont Stakes as a television pundit. "It's not so much these three races in five weeks but the series of races. You need a certain number of points to qualify for the Kentucky Derby, so that means it's a sequence of six or seven races for California Chrome. "It's like Olympic athletes -- you can't peak all season, though it's doable." History supports Bramlage's argument. Five horses have had the opportunity to complete the treble in the past 12 years, and all have come up short. Mexican jockey Espinoza, who is unbeaten on board California Chrome, was one of those five. In 2002, he was riding War Emblem only for his mount to stumble out of the stalls, virtually unseating Espinoza and effectively eradicating his race chances before the Belmont Stakes -- known as "the test of a champion" -- had barely begun. "Things have to be perfect or very nearly perfect for it to happen," says Espinoza, who this week has pitched at the Yankees Stadium, rang the bell at the New York Stock Exchange and appeared on the David Letterman Show as the interest California Chrome's feats has spiraled. Watch jockey #VictorEspinoza talk #CaliforniaChrome on the Late Show w/ @Letterman tonight CBS 11:30pm! #TripleChrome pic.twitter.com/WBQxdOejYf "There are so many things against you. It's a different distance to the previous two races -- a mile and a half -- but he's run that, and it's a different surface." Like in the Derby and the Preakness, the surface is dirt but Belmont Park is known as "The Big Sandy" -- a nod to its sandier terrain, necessitated by the region's combination of greater rainfall and higher humidity. But the distance and surface are not the only obstacles in the way of the trifecta wannabe. The dangers in the field lie with: Tonalist, winner of the Peter Pan Stakes -- effectively the Belmont trial; Preakness runner-up Ride on Curlin; and Commanding Curve, apparently refreshed after his last race, finishing second in the Kentucky Derby. "I spoke to a vet that takes care of California Chrome and he said he couldn't have a better personality for what he's trying to do," says Bramlage. "He's just like a kid at a carnival. Physically he's in great shape. If he does his best performance, I don't think there's a horse that can go with him in the race. "I feel good about it. I think he'll do it." Very Cool RT "@ABRVTour: The #TripleCrown Trophy is in the building at #Belmont #CaliforniaChrome #TripleChrome pic.twitter.com/YJR2tkp0TE" Espinoza can vividly remember his first triple attempt in 2002, the buildup -- "which was no way as crazy as this time" -- and the butterflies in his stomach as he entered the stalls. "For me, 2002 is still a tough one," he says. "I never thought I'd get a second chance and I'm very lucky to get one. "He slipped and it was so sharp my reaction was just to avoid hitting the ground. Right then, the chance was gone and the race was only just beginning. "But that's the Triple Crown. Over three races so many different things can happen. That was unlucky and you need luck." The 11th of 12 children, Espinoza had an occasionally tumultuous upbringing, moving to the sprawling, often unsafe metropolis of Mexico City when he was eight. "We had fun as children but Mexico City was crazy and dangerous," he recalls. "I know that every day somebody got shot, people that I know as well. "But nothing ever happened to my family. Maybe we were just very lucky. I don't know." California Chrome has gripped American hearts, effectively bought and bred for $10,000 by two owner novices, trained by a septuagenarian and ridden by a jockey who thought his best days had gone. "California Chrome has a great chance -- he's improved a lot with each race," says Espinoza. "War Emblem had to run from the front -- that was his way. But this one's different -- he wins from everywhere." At the Kentucky Derby, Espinoza chose to slot him into third position, only moving into the lead on the final turn before pulling out a five-length victory. At the earlier Santa Anita Derby, he found himself boxed in by two horses but broke clear once again for the win. One factor against Espinoza in 2002, and again this year, is his record at Belmont. He has won just two of his 69 races there. "That's because most rides there are for me trying out other horses with the focus on one big race," the 42-year-old says. "I don't care if I lose every race as long as I win this one." "Today's "awwwwww" moment from @CalChrome & his buddy Willie  pic.twitter.com/wtseFfXgB6 / Real Buddies" BFFs #TripleCrown2014  Kentucky is the heartland of American thoroughbred racing -- 65% of its grade one winners come from there -- but Espinoza will have support from the Bluegrass State despite Chrome's West Coast roots. "That doesn't matter," says Rogers Beazley, director of racing at Kentucky-based race track and auction house Keeneland. "We're all pulling for him. You want it to happen -- it's such a great story." However, he draws the line at saying he will back him -- "I don't want to jinx him" -- and admits a victory is by no means assured. "It's an incredibly hard thing to do," he added. "It's not a natural progression. You race over a mile and a quarter, a mile and three-16ths and then a mile and a half. "The timing of it all is incredibly tough too. It takes a really good horse to do it. "You also have to be incredibly lucky. Horses peak at different times, you can lose a shoe -- there are so many different things. "It's so hard and that's why so few people have done it. Also the caliber of the lineup is right up there." Should California Chrome enter the home stretch in front, victory is by no means assured. The run-in at Belmont Park is infinitely longer than at most tracks and Espinoza, well versed to the track, knows he will need to bide his time. In that quest, he has tried to unpick the events of 12 years ago to see what he can do differently. It has resulted more in him focusing on staying relaxed, most notably by watching Disney cartoons. "They're fun and they just take you away from everything, it works for me," he says. Whether that's the answer to winning the Triple Crown, he has no idea. "Ask me again on Saturday. Hopefully I'll be able to tell you." Read: Meet California Chrome - the horse racing rock star Read: California Chrome can use nasal strip at Belmont Stakes Read: Skechers sponsors California Chrome  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/travel/worlds-best-cycle-routes/index.html	travel	The world's most incredible bike routes - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 08:25:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The primary joy of a bicycle is that, in its purest form, it's little more than a highly efficient way of walking. Just grab the bike, climb aboard and pedal swiftly to the shop, the bar or wherever. Some cyclists, however, prefer their rides a bit more dramatic. Perhaps even scenic, remote and arduous. Here's a selection of fantastic rides from around the world that take anything from a day to several months to complete. Don't forget the anti-chafe cream. The Friendship Highway (China) Whether or not the 800 kilometers (500 miles) between the Tibetan city of Lhasa and the Nepalese border is the planet's most beautiful ride depends on your idea enjoyment of sometimes bleak high-altitude vistas. What's in little doubt is that it's the highest. The route includes three road passes of more than 5,000 meters (16,400 feet), with a lung-bursting maximum of 5,220 meters over the Gyatso La mountain pass, where the reward on a clear day is a distant view of Everest. This, it goes without saying, isn't for everyone. Conditions can be testing and the distance between towns necessitates careful planning. Plus, the sensitive political situation in Tibet means individual travel can be tricky at times. MORE: Cycling across the sea in stunning Hiroshima For the sufficiently committed this remains one of the globe's true adventures, from the religious and cultural wonders of Lhasa and Gyantse to the prayer flag-draped peak of the Gampa La mountain pass, with the vast, turquoise lake, Yamdrok Yumtso, shining in the valley below. If that's not enough, the route ends with possibly the world's longest descent, a precipitous 3,500-meter drop off the edge of the Tibetan plateau along muddy hairpins. La Ruta de los Conquistadores (Costa Rica) Shorter but arguably no less arduous than the Friendship Highway is this 270-kilometer off-road ride across Costa Rica. From the Pacific to Caribbean coasts, this one takes in mud paths, rainforest, coffee plantations, even an extinct volcano. It can be completed in three days each November as part of the annual mountain bike race from which the ride takes its name. Those in less of a rush can spend as long as they like, whenever they like, tracing the route of the 16th-century Spanish conqueror Juan de Cavallon, the chief conquistador of the title. Costa Rica has a vast range of natural wonder packed into an area roughly the size of Switzerland, around a quarter of it national park -- La Ruta delivers a decent taste of this. Beginning in the surf resort of Jaco Beach, the route soon turns onto energy-sapping red mud dirt roads, climbing up. And up and up -- the official La Ruta course includes about 3,000 meters (9,842 feet) of climbing on the first day alone. Skirting the capital, San Jose, it passes near the extinct peak volcanic peak of Irazu and down again to mangrove forests and white sand beaches. The traditional end to the trip is a dip in the Caribbean. Riding in is optional. MORE: Most bike-friendly cities in the United States North Sea Cycle Route (Europe) The NSCR, which also goes by the slightly less evocative name of Euro Velo Route 12, is a Euroskeptic's nightmare -- an EU-funded epic across eight countries that claims to be the longest signposted cycle route in the world. Covering almost 6,000 kilometers (3,728 miles), it runs from the northern edge of Scotland's Shetland Islands along the coasts of Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Norway. It hopefully goes without saying that there's no need for anyone to attempt the whole thing. Inevitably, it also goes without saying that a surprising number of people do, mainly over a series of summers -- this is a route where the warmest spot is probably somewhere near Ostend on the coast of Belgium, so it's really not one for winter. The more intrepid riders fill the official NSCR website with arcane tips about acquiring krone when crossing into Denmark and the best way to get themselves and their bikes over the sea crossings. MORE: Cycling South Africa's wine routes The Shimanami Kaido (Japan) At a shade more than 64 kilometers (40 miles) this is perhaps the only route on this list on which riders could reasonably consider taking their kids the full length without worrying about a visit from social services. Completely separated from the road, it snakes across a series of small, wonderfully scenic islands in Hiroshima prefecture, in the west of the country. Japan might be more popularly associated with the car rather than the bike, but cycling is common here and the Shimanami Kaido shows how two and four wheels can happily coexist. The segregated cycleway, which also has a lane for pedestrians, for the most part runs alongside the road, though there are diversions, not least the longer, more gentle and thus more leg-friendly slopes up to the high road bridges. Bikes can be hired at a series of points along the path. Some people complete the trip in a day, but many dawdle to gaze at the beautiful vistas along the Seto Inland Sea. This is a route for gentle meandering, not teeth-gritted grinding. Yes, there are tolls on the bridges for cyclists, but these are pretty small, more necessitating a pocket of change than a bank loan. MORE: Full gallery of the Shimanami Kaido Great Divide Mountain Bike Route (North America) Want big? This is big. An off-road touring route from Canada's Alberta all the way to New Mexico. If the 4,400-kilometer (2,734 miles) length (as detailed on the Adventure Cycling website) isn't enough to start palpitations, how about a combined 61,000 meters (you don't even want to know what that is in feet) of climbing? Yes, that's right, almost seven times the height of Everest -- from sea level, that is, not base camp. It's also often extremely remote, and thus largely the preserve of wiry, wind-burnished men and women on much-traveled mountain bikes towing trailers filled with anti-bear spray, titanium camping spoons and nuclear fusion nano-stoves. It's undeniably spectacular, taking in everything from woodland to mountains (did we forget to mention the Colorado Rockies?) and the wastelands of the Great Basin. Potential companions could include grizzlies, moose, mountain lions and eagles. If that's not enough to think about, weather conditions mean the trip is only really feasible from June to September, and even then flash rains can make sections impassably muddy for weeks at a time. Munda Biddi Trail (Australia) Another epic, and this time in one of the more cutoff places in the world: Western Australia. At least with the Munda Biddi the route organizers might actually be on the rider's side. Slightly. A vastly ambitious, recently completed 960-plus kilometer (596 miles) off-road route through the forested wilderness -- Munda Biddi means "path through the forest" in the local indigenous language -- it runs from near the state capital, Perth, to Albany in the far southwest. MORE: Freewheeling around Europe's best cycling cities  The less ambitious can tackle smaller, less strenuous sections of just a day or more, and the official website gives updates on sometimes muddy trail conditions. Anyone planning the full slog would be wise to avoid the full heat of summer, and come prepared. That said, between towns there are designated campsites every 30 or so miles, with sleeping huts and water supplies. The South Downs Way (England) File under "deceptively tricky." This 160-kilometer route (99 miles) is hardly alpine in outlook, crossing some of the most stereotypically lush and rolling English countryside you can imagine. But all those small ups and down add up. Riders tackling the entire route commit themselves to almost 4,300 meters (14,107 feet) of uphill pedaling. A much tramped walking route for thousands of years and now a fully signposted hiking trail, the South Downs Way meanders from the precipitous cliffs of Beachy Head to historic Winchester, virtually all off road and much of it on ancient chalky bridleways. Open to cyclists, walkers and horse riders, those on two wheels generally allow two or three days for the trip, and there are plenty of absurdly picturesque villages en route with pubs and guesthouses. Some hardy souls tackle the entire thing in a day, but there's an argument that pedaling furiously through some of England's most glorious vistas kind of misses the point. Know about an amazing cycle route that's not on this list? Tell us below. Peter Walker is a journalist based in the UK who regularly contributes to cycling publications. He once rode a bike most of the way from Sydney to London.    CNN Travel's series often carries sponsorship originating from the countries and regions we profile. However CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports. Read the policy. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/us/cold-war-5-things/index.html	us	The Cold War: 5 things you might not know - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:40:30 EDT 2014	Experience "The Sixties" on CNN on Thursdays at 9p ET/PT. Discover your '60s personality by taking the CNN Sixties quiz. (CNN) -- East versus West, capitalism versus communism: the Cold War lasted from the end of World War II until the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991. Yet this war was at its height in the 1960s. That's the decade the Cuban missile crisis played out, the United States entered the Vietnam War to fight communist forces there, and President John F. Kennedy sent a team of Cuban exiles into Cuba's Bay of Pigs to try to overthrow leader Fidel Castro. Here are five other momentous events of the 1960s Cold War that you might not know: 1. The Soviets shot down an American plane and captured the pilot  The United States had been flying U2 spy planes over the Soviet Union for some time to see if the Soviets were aiming missiles at America and to snap photos of local newspaper headlines. The CIA told President Dwight D. Eisenhower that its sophisticated aircraft, which reached altitudes of up to 70,000 feet, could not be shot down. But on May 1, 1960, U2 pilot Francis Gary Powers disappeared on a flight over Russia. Powers had been shot down and captured, and Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev made the wreckage a public exhibition. A humiliated Eisenhower was forced to admit the United States had, in fact, committed espionage. 2. Nikita Khrushchev threatened to "bury" America Three days after meeting Fidel Castro for the first time, Khrushchev visited the United Nations on September 23, 1960. The Soviet leader believed communism was the future and that America needed to be contained. In his address to the U.N. General Assembly, the Soviet leader threatened to "bury" America. 3. JFK didn't mention a single domestic issue in his inaugural speech Newly elected John F. Kennedy felt his job was to run the Cold War and defeat the Russians, which he made clear in his January 20, 1961, inaugural speech, stating: "Let every nation know whether it wishes us well or ill that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, uphold any foe, to assure the survival and the success of liberty." 4. The space race made Americans fear for their lives When Soviet pilot Yuri Gagarin became the first person to enter outer space on April 12, 1961, orbiting the Earth in one hour and 48 minutes, Americans worried the United States could no longer protect its people. Some thought if you could put a man into space, you could put a nuclear warhead into space. Khrushchev reacted by saying, "Now let the capitalist countries try to catch up." Opinion: Putin's empire building is not a new Cold War 5. Panic over a soccer field led to the Cuban Missile Crisis When a CIA consultant spotted soccer fields along the coast in Cuba in September 1962, he became concerned because, as he put it, "Cubans play baseball, Russians play soccer." The CIA analyst had deduced that the field indicated the presence of a Soviet military camp nearby. Kennedy approved U2 flights over Cuba but didn't want to get sucked into another Bay of Pigs, the failed invasion to overthrow Castro in April 1961. He wanted hard evidence. Photographs convinced Kennedy that the Russians were putting missiles in Cuba. After U.S. intelligence indicated which U.S. regions were vulnerable to a possible nuclear attack from Cuban soil, Kennedy feared that 30 million American lives were in danger. Was it really a simpler time? Your '60s family photos, revealed Kennedy did not want to attack Cuba, but he was worried about the survival of the human race. He imposed a blockade, and on October 22, 1962, he announced to the world that large, long-range weapons of sudden destruction posed a threat to America. When Russia sent 25 ships toward Cuba, the White House thought it was the early stages of World War III. At the last minute Soviet ships turned around. For the first time, Khrushchev acknowledged the presence of Soviet missiles in Cuba, but argued they were merely defensive, and promised to remove them if JFK promised not to invade Cuba. BONUS: Kennedy planned to get out of Vietnam  It's impossible to know where we'd be today had Kennedy not gone to Dallas in 1963. Until that year, the President had treated Vietnam as a second-tier issue. He was dealing with Cuba, Berlin and domestic matters. He also felt the people of Vietnam ought to defeat the communists themselves. While the Soviets supported North Vietnam, the United States supported the South. And fears cropped up that if South Vietnam fell, the rest of Southeast Asia was vulnerable, as well as New Zealand and Australia. When the South Vietnam government was overthrown just weeks before Kennedy's fateful trip to Dallas, he told an aide he would begin to discuss getting out of Vietnam in 1964, after his re-election. Most historians agree that Kennedy would never have done what Lyndon B. Johnson did, which was trust the military implicitly. Kennedy was skeptical of military advice. In his December 17, 1963, address to the U.N. General Assembly, President Johnson told a nation in mourning: "The United States of America wants to see the Cold War end. We want sanity and security and peace for all. And above all President Kennedy I am sure would regard as his best memorial the fact that in his three years as President the world became a little safer, and the way ahead became a little brighter."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/europe/d-day-commemoration/index.html	world	Obama, European leaders honor D-Day landings in France, 70 years on - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 04:14:44 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- U.S. President Barack Obama paid tribute Friday to the U.S. service members who "defied every danger" to pour onto the beaches of Normandy 70 years ago in defense of liberty. His remarks at the American Cemetery in Colleville-sur-Mer, which overlooks Omaha Beach where so many fell, are part of a series of solemn events to commemorate the D-Day landings in northern France. Chief among them is an elaborate international ceremony on the stretch code-named Sword Beach, in Ouistreham, for which world leaders and veterans took places in stands set up on the sand. As the ceremony got under way under brilliant sunshine, military bands marched on a map of the globe laid out across the golden strand in front of French President Francois Hollande. Hollande then spoke of the bravery of the young men who waded ashore under a deluge of German fire seven decades earlier, through waters turned red with blood, hailing them all as heroes. "I want to express my gratitude to all the fighters who are no longer here," he said, going on to list the American, British, Canadian, Polish, Belgian and other forces that took part. He paid tribute too to the many Russians who died during World War II and to the German victims of the Nazi regime. Secret D-Day training mission cost hundreds of lives The Allied forces' sacrifice allowed Europe to live in security today, Hollande said in a speech that also highlighted the challenges the world now faces. It was followed by a dance performance depicting the occupation, liberation and post-war reconstruction of Europe. The D-Day landings, in which mainly British, U.S. and Canadian troops invaded Nazi-occupied France, were a turning point in World War II. D-Day: Exploring the myths of the Normandy landings Obama: 'Democracy's beachhead' Obama, speaking earlier at the American Cemetery, said he was honored to be there "to pay tribute to the men and women of a generation who defied every danger: among them, our veterans of D-Day." Lengthy applause rang out as the U.S. President said he was humbled by the presence of some of those veterans at the ceremony. Share your family's D-Day stories "Here, we don't just commemorate victory, as proud of that victory as we are; we don't just honor sacrifice, as grateful as the world is; we come to remember why America and our allies gave so much for the survival of liberty at this moment of maximum peril," Obama said. Their story should remain "seared into the memory of a future world," he said, describing Normandy as "democracy's beachhead." He said, "It was here, on these shores, that the tide was turned in that common struggle for freedom. "What more powerful manifestation of America's commitment to human freedom than the sight of wave after wave of young men boarding those boats to liberate people they'd never met?" After the poignant ceremony, Obama and Hollande moved among the veterans and military officials, shaking hands and thanking them for their service. The cemetery, which sits on a cliff overlooking Omaha Beach and the English Channel, contains the graves of 9,387 U.S. servicemen, most of whom lost their lives in the D-Day landings. Omaha was the deadliest of the landing sites because German forces were able to fire from fortified positions on the cliffs above as the first waves of soldiers reached the shore. 70 years later, D-Day vet jumps again Putin and Obama meet A lunch for world leaders and veterans hosted by Hollande before the Sword Beach ceremony was the scene of an impromptu meeting between Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin. The pair spoke on the margins of the lunch in what Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes said was an informal conversation, not a formal bilateral meeting. It lasted 10 to 15 minutes, he said. Obama and Putin have been at loggerheads in recent weeks over Russian actions in Ukraine, and the pair were not seated next to each other for lunch. The run-up to the commemorations has been dominated by the crisis in Ukraine, which has sparked the worst East-West tensions since the end of the Cold War. Putin and Ukrainian President-elect Petro Poroshenko also talked briefly before the leaders went in to lunch in Benouville, with German Chancellor Angela Merkel standing between the two as they spoke. G7 leaders have urged Putin to engage with Poroshenko, who will be inaugurated Saturday, as Ukraine's legitimate leader and take steps to ease the pro-Russia separatist unrest roiling eastern Ukraine. Putin was excluded from a meeting of G7 leaders held this week in Brussels, Belgium, as part of measures to sanction Moscow over its annexation in March of Ukraine's Crimea region. Speaking after the summit Thursday, Obama said the G7 nations were united in their support of Ukraine and urged Putin to take steps to deescalate the pro-Russian separatist unrest in the country's east. Putin "has a chance to get back into a lane of international law," Obama said. But for this to happen, he said, Putin must take steps over the coming weeks that include engaging with Ukraine's new President, stopping the flow of weapons over the border into Ukraine and ceasing Russian support for pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine. 'Touching' commemoration More than 156,000 troops crossed the English Channel during the D-Day invasion on June 6, 1944. Nearly 10,000 Allied troops were killed or wounded. Nicholas Soames, grandson of Britain's wartime leader Winston Churchill, said it was "very touching" that so many people had come to take part in what will probably be the last commemoration of the D-Day landings on this scale, since those who survived are now in their 80s and 90s. Nearly 1,000 veterans have traveled to France to take part in the events, according to the French government. Britain's Queen Elizabeth II is the only living head of state who served in World War II, working as a mechanic and military truck driver in the Women's Auxiliary Territorial Service. Earlier, Hollande spoke at a war memorial in the city of Caen at a ceremony to honor civilian victims and paid tribute to all those killed in the conflict. He recalled the "strength of heart and bravery" of those who helped to liberate France from Nazi Germany, as well as the many victims in Normandy -- more of them civilians than soldiers. Although the war may be long over in Normandy, Hollande said, "the war is still here in this tumultuous, uncertain and sometimes threatening world -- and in all wars, it is civilians who pay a heavy price." The Queen, Prince Philip and Prince Charles took part in a ceremony at the British War Cemetery in Bayeux, the largest of the Commonwealth cemeteries in France. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper was also in Normandy to honor the Canadian forces that stormed Juno Beach 70 years ago. "It is a source of enormous national pride that Canadians played such a pivotal role in ensuring the success of the D-Day landings," he said in a statement. "We are also deeply humbled by the enormous sacrifices made by our fellow citizens, who with grim determination, stood shoulder to shoulder with like-minded allies to fight evil." A fireworks display was staged Thursday night along the Normandy coastline where the landings took place. Obama vows to stand with Ukraine as he meets President-elect in Poland Opinion: Putin's empire-building is not a new Cold War Russia and Ukraine bicker in U.N. meeting CNN's Jeff Kepnes, Max Foster and Christiane Amanpour contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/europe/d-day-paratrooper-jumps-again/index.html	world	70 years later, D-Day vet Jim 'Pee Wee' Martin jumps again - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 07:04:15 EDT 2014	Normandy, France (CNN) -- Jim "Pee Wee" Martin acted like he'd been here before, like jumping from a plane is as easy as falling off a log. Maybe that's because he had -- 70 years ago. "I'm feeling fine," Martin told reporters moments after landing in a French field. "... It was wonderful, absolutely wonderful." Martin was part of the U.S. 101st Airborne Division that parachuted down over Utah Beach in their bid to retake France and, eventually, the rest of Europe from Nazi Germany. They actually touched down in enemy-controlled territory a night before what's referred to as D-Day. His jump Thursday in the same area was different and -- despite his being 93 years old now -- a whole lot easier. "It didn't (compare)," Martin said, "because there wasn't anybody shooting at me today." Every year, every day it seems, the number of surviving World War II veterans like Martin dwindles. He estimates there are only a few dozen members of his unit who took part in the now historic D-Day invasion who are still around. Share your family's D-Day stories It's ironic, in a sense, because Martin was among the oldest of his bunch in June 1944 -- at 23 years old -- surrounded by others who were mere teenagers. Together, they parachuted onto France's northern coast in the dark of night not knowing what awaited them. Whatever it was, it would not be friendly or easy, they expected. "Everybody (was) scared all the time, and if they tell you anything differently they are full of crap," the former paratrooper recalled. "But you just do what you had to do regardless of it. That's the difference." And they didn't stop. According to a Facebook page he regularly updates, Martin fought for 43 days as part of the Normandy campaign before moving onto invade Holland, fending off Nazi fighters during the Battle of the Bulge and finishing off by taking Berchtesgaden, site of Hitler's "Eagle's Nest" redoubt in the German Alps. None of it was easy, but Martin insists, "I don't ever have flashbacks. Never. Nothing ever bothered me." All these years later, he has become a celebrity of sorts -- as evidenced by a mob of reporters who greeted him after his parachute landing Thursday. Martin says he feels "kind of humbled and embarrassed at the adulation because I don't feel we did anything that we weren't supposed to do or anything exceptional." He adds: "We just did what we trained to do." Seven decades later, Martin did it again -- not fighting a bloody war but at least reliving his role in a military campaign that changed the course of history. Others joined him in this now daytime jump, though he was the only one from his generation. This time, he said that he wasn't scared because, "once you get in the plane, you forget everything." Bored would be more like it. As he told reporters afterward, "To tell you the truth, riding around in the plane is boring. It's when you get off the plane, that's when it gets exciting ... But there's no fear to it. It's just something you do." Martin admitted that he was motivated by "a little bit of ego, (to show that) I'm 93 and I can still do it." "And also I just want to show all the people that you don't have to sit and die just because you get old," he added. "Keep doing things." Among those things he'd like to do is another jump in the same plane, one year from now. "If I come back next year, I'll make a jump next year. You can bet on it." READ: D-Day: Exploding the myths of the Normandy landings READ: Obama: D-Day vets' stories should remain 'seared into memory' CNN's Jim Bittermann reported from Normandy, and CNN's Greg Botelho wrote from Atlanta. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/opinion/opinion-d-day-myth-reality/index.html	opinion	D-Day: Exploding the myths of the Normandy landings - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 05:04:16 EDT 2014	Editor's note: James Holland is a historian, writer and broadcaster, whose books include "Fortress Malta," "Battle of Britain," and "Dam Busters." He has written and presented BAFTA-shortlisted documentaries for the BBC and is currently working on a film about Normandy in 1944. A fellow of the Royal Historical Society, Holland is also co-founder of the Chalke Valley History Festival: several of his World War II interviews are available at griffonmerlin.com. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of James Holland. (CNN) -- Anniversaries are useful moments to pause and reflect. For the 70th anniversary of D-Day and subsequent campaign in northern France, it is also an opportunity to look at the past in detail and ask how much of what we think we know is true and how much is well-entrenched myth. Not only is it more interesting, it is also of greater worth as we plan for the future and pray there will never be a conflict like World War II again. 1. MYTH: D-Day was predominantly an American operation REALITY: For many people, D-Day is defined by the bloodshed at Omaha -- the codename for one of the five beaches where Allied forces landed -- and the American airborne drops. Even in Germany, the perception is still that D-Day was a largely American show; in the recent German TV mini-series, "Generation War," there was a reference to the "American landings" in France. But despite "Band of Brothers," despite "Saving Private Ryan," despite those 11 photographs taken by Robert Capa in the swell on that morning of June 6 1944, D-Day was not a predominantly American effort. Rather, it was an Allied effort with, if anything, Britain taking the lead. Yes, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, the supreme Allied commander, was American, but his deputy, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder was British, as were all three service chiefs. Air Marshal Sir Arthur "Mary" Coningham, commander of the tactical air forces, was also British. The plan for Operation Overlord -- as D-Day was codenamed -- was largely that of Gen. Bernard Montgomery, the land force commander. The Royal Navy had overall responsibility for Operation Neptune, the naval plan. Of the 1,213 warships involved, 200 were American and 892 were British; of the 4,126 landing craft involved, 805 were American and 3,261 were British. Share your family's D-Day stories Indeed, 31% of all U.S. supplies used during D-Day came directly from Britain, while two-thirds of the 12,000 aircraft involved were also British, as were two-thirds of those that landed in occupied France. Despite the initial slaughter at Omaha, casualties across the American and British beaches were much the same. This is not to belittle the U.S. effort but rather to add context and a wider, 360-degree view. History needs to teach as well as entertain. 2. MYTH: American forces were ill-prepared REALITY: By the end of World War II the United States had the best armed services in the world. The 77-day Normandy campaign did much to help them reach this point. Northern France was a showcase for American tactical and operational flexibility. At the start of the campaign, the Americans found themselves fighting through the Norman "bocage," an area of small fields lined with thick, raised hedgerows and narrow, sunken lanes. They hadn't trained for this; instead they expected that the Germans would quickly retreat after a successful Allied landing. For the Germans, the bocage offered cover and ambush opportunities for mortar teams and machine guns. Even the American 30-ton Sherman tanks couldn't get through these hedgerows. Then a U.S. sergeant came up with the ingenious solution of attaching a hedge-cutting tool built from German beach obstacles to the front of a Sherman. Gen. Omar Bradley, the U.S. First Army commander, was impressed; within a fortnight, the device had been fitted to 60% of all U.S. Shermans in Normandy. This was but one example. During the campaign huge developments also were made in close air support, as well as in coordination between infantry, artillery and armor. Medical services advanced so much that one in four casualties returned to the battlefield after treatment, remarkable for 1944. 3. MYTH: The Allies became bogged down in Normandy REALITY: In the pre-invasion estimates for the Normandy campaign, the Allies expected to be roughly 50 miles inland after 17 days, based on German retreats in North Africa and Italy. But Adolf Hitler ordered his forces to fight as close to the French coast as possible and not give an inch. On paper it seemed that the Allies weren't making much progress, but in reality the German strategy worked to the Allies' advantage as they pounded the enemy with offshore naval guns. For by 1944 the Allies had realized that German tactics -- which dated back more than 100 years -- were rigidly predictable. Striking back once the enemy had overextended itself was central to German DNA throughout World War II. The Allies soon realized that this penchant for counterattack meant that the Germans would eventually move into the open and get hammered. By the end of the Normandy campaign the Germans were hemorrhaging men and machines, with two armies all but destroyed. True, a handful of Germans did escape the attempted encirclement around Falaise, but it was still a massive Allied victory. In the rapid advance that followed, the Allies moved more quickly than Germans had in the opposite direction four years before, during the invasion of France. 4. MYTH: German soldiers were better trained than their Allied counterparts REALITY: At the start of World War II the best German units were more than a match for their Allied opposition -- but by 1944 that had changed radically. There were a few exceptions, such as the Panzer Lehr, but come D-Day most German units were not as well trained as the Allies. Some Allied units in Normandy had been preparing for four years for this campaign. In contrast, many German troops had had little more than a few weeks' notice. The German ad hoc battle groups known as kampfgruppen are traditionally regarded as showcasing tactical flexibility, but even these were borne of extreme shortages and desperation toward the end of the war. The German paratroopers, or fallschirmjger, were acknowledged to be among the best of their armed forces, yet one veteran I interviewed recalled how he had barely any training, save a few route marches and practice at laying mines. He never trained with a tank, had no transport and had to march 200 miles from Brittany when sent to the front. His case was not atypical: All infantry divisions in Normandy were expected to move by either foot or horse-drawn cart. The veteran I spoke to reached Saint-L, a major Normandy town, on June 12 with a company of 120 men. When he was captured on August 19 he was one of just nine men still standing. The Germans had a doctrine during World War II called auftragstaktik -- best described as the ability to use one's initiative -- which has been hailed as what set their soldiers apart. But the paratrooper I spoke to knew nothing of it. By that stage of the war, German training was so skimpy that it was impossible to implement. 5. MYTH: The Germans had stronger tactical skills REALITY: The dogged determination of the Germans to fight during D-Day is often confused with tactical skill. It shouldn't. The best analogy is with more recent conflicts like Afghanistan or even Vietnam, when Western forces had the best training and kit yet struggled to defeat a massively inferior enemy. As the Taliban have shown, it is very difficult to completely defeat your enemy if they don't want to be defeated. The only way to do that is to kill them all. This is why the Germans took so long to be defeated in Normandy and, subsequently, despite a lack of training, they were still a very dangerous and deadly enemy with plenty of powerful weapons and a fierce determination to keep fighting. This was for a number of reasons: Nazi indoctrination, a profound sense of duty and the threat of execution for deserters. In World War I the Germans executed 48 men for desertion; during World War II that figure rose to 30,000. 6. MYTH: America and Britain got off lightly in World War II REALITY: Allied frontline troops suffered horrifically during World War II. Democracies such as Britain and America tried to achieve victory with as few casualties as possible. For the most part, they did this very successfully using technology and machinery to shield lives wherever they could. However, short distances still had to be won by the infantry, tank units and artillery. Although technology meant the Allies needed fewer forces than a generation earlier, those in the firing line still pulled the very short straw. Losses to frontline troops were proportionally worse during the 77-day Normandy campaign than they were during the major battles along the Western Front during World War I. D-Day veteran: I don't want them to be forgotten  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/politics/bergdahl-partisan-politics/index.html	politics	Rhetoric and rancor: The politics of Bergdahl's release turned nasty - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 01:47:32 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- Well, that turned ugly fast. A move that the White House hoped might herald a happy welcome home for U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, a soldier held captive for five years by the Taliban in Afghanistan, quickly turned into a nasty and largely partisan fight when he was exchanged for five militants being held in Guantanamo Bay. A political tsunami ensued with allegations from both sides of the aisle of politicizing national security, questions about whether Bergdahl is a deserter and criticism of his family. "I'm never surprised by controversies that are whipped up in Washington. That's par for the course," President Barack Obama said Thursday during a news conference at a meeting of G7 leaders in Brussels. Surprising? Perhaps not. But the force of the vitriol, backlash and backpedaling is an example of how sensitive issues can quickly turn volatile in a hyper-partisan Washington climate, political analysts said. "When, all of a sudden, you've got Republican congressman who previously were calling for this, criticizing the administration for leaving this man in captivity for five years, or praising his release, and then deleting those Tweets? That really belies the politics. That exposes the naked, ugly politics behind this controversy," said John Avalon, a CNN political analyst. Politics, raw and unpleasant, is what defines Washington now, political analysts said. "It's to be expected because it's a potent mix of partisan environment where the rhetoric is very heated," said Julian Zelizer, a Princeton University historian and CNN contributor. "Combine that with a very controversial decision. Put those things together and you expect this kind of thing to happen." However, it's important to wade through the rhetoric and get to the issues at the core, said David Rothkopf, editor of Foreign Policy magazine. Behind the "the arm-waving and typical Capitol Hill vs. White House gamesmanship," there are pertinent questions about why the administration didn't tell Congress about the prisoner swap plan, if such a trade was a good one and whether the White House should have struck a more solemn tone about Bergdahl's release when there were questions about desertion, Rothkopf said. "The Bergdahl situation has produced exactly the same kind of whirlwind of invective and overheated, highly politicized commentary that just about everything else does in Washington," Rothkopf said. "The trick in this case, as in all others, is to somehow discount all that and get to the underlying truth. Real issues regularly get obscured by all the invective and defensive spin." And everyone involved is in heavy "defensive" spin mode. Who was swapped for Bergdahl? I was for it before I was against it Former Vietnam prisoner of war and 2008 GOP presidential nominee Sen. John McCain, criticized the trade of Bergdahl for the Taliban commanders quickly. "This decision to bring Sergeant Bergdahl home, and we applaud that he's home -- it's ill-founded, it's a mistake and it's putting lives of American servicemen and women at risk," the Arizona Republican told reporters. However, in February, McCain seemed in an interview with CNN to back a swap. "Obviously, I'd have to know the details, but I would support ways of bringing him home and if (an) exchange was one of them, I think that would be something I think we should seriously consider," he said at the time. McCain has said his message has been consistent. Then there are lawmakers who deleted their initial "welcome home" Tweets to Bergdahl as the controversy over his release spiraled into ugliness. Democrats, including the President, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, said Bergdahl is being used as a political football. "If Barack Obama cured cancer, Republicans would attack him for putting oncologists out of work," Democratic strategist Paul Begala told CNN. But even some Democrats, such as Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Dianne Feinstein, criticized the administration's end run around Congress in securing Bergdahl's release but defended the decision. Confusing messages from the White House The White House story on when and how top leaders on Capitol Hill were informed about the release has added to the confusion, political analysts said. The initial Rose Garden announcement was quickly followed by apologies to such top Democrats as Feinstein for being kept out of the loop. Then came more explanation about the critical timing of Bergdahl's release, which the administration has said was tied to his declining health and the pending withdrawal of U.S. combat troops from Afghanistan. Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl Meanwhile, the criticism outside of Washington has grown louder and less polite. A group of soldiers from Bergdahl's unit in Afghanistan accused him of desertion. Their claims -- not confirmed by the Pentagon, which is investigating -- responded to how Bergdahl was lauded by the White House as a hero when there were questions about his disappearance. Those soldiers said several troops were killed in efforts to find him, another claim the military has not confirmed. Republican strategist, Richard Grenell, who BuzzFeed reported helped get the soldiers' side of the story out to such media outlets as the New York Times, worked on former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential campaign. Grenell declined to comment on his efforts to CNN. In the meantime, the rancor has even begun to impact Bergdahl's family and community. Fox News Channel host Bill O'Reilly said Bergdahl's father, who wears a long beard, "looks like a Muslim," and their hometown of Hailey, Idaho, called off a welcome home rally after fears of backlash over the controversial nature of the soldier's release. "Emotions are running very high on this case," said CNN senior political analyst David Gergen. "Among the military personnel and veterans, my sense is it has less to do with the trade for the five militants than the celebratory qualities that the administration initially displayed toward Bergdahl. The message they got was this was a hero coming home. And that totally misreads the military mentality on this issue." Celebrated at first, Bergdahl's release raises questions How big a terror risk are former Guantanamo prisoners? Bergdahl 'life' video shown, Senators still skeptical CNN Senior White House Correspondent Jim Acosta contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/world/europe/uk-pakistan-mqm-leader-arrest/index.html	world	Leader of Pakistan's MQM party arrested in London - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 01:55:13 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The London-based leader of one of Pakistan's most powerful regional parties was arrested at his home Tuesday in connection with a money laundering probe, officials of his party said. Altaf Hussain, leader of Pakistan's Mutahida Qaumi Movement, was arrested by London's Metropolitan Police, MQM Senior Deputy Gov. Nadeem Nusrat told reporters in Pakistan. Hussain, 60, leads MQM from the United Kingdom, where he sought political asylum in 1991. MQM is the fourth-largest party in the Pakistani Parliament, holding 25 out of 446 seats, though it is a greater force in Sindh province, including Pakistan's largest city, Karachi. Metropolitan Police said they arrested a 60-year-old man at a home in northwest London on suspicion of money laundering Tuesday morning, but they did not release his name. Hussain has been ill and was preparing to leave his home to get checked at a hospital when he was arrested, Nusrat said. "Workers and supporters all over the world, including Pakistan, are very concerned and worried for his welfare," Nusrat told reporters. Metropolitan Police said the man they arrested "has an existing medical condition," and that they were taking him to a hospital for a previously scheduled medical appointment. "He will remain in custody of officers throughout," the police said in a written statement. Details of the money laundering allegations weren't immediately available. Faisal Subzwari, a senior MQM politician, told CNN the party is cooperating with the Metropolitan Police investigation. After news of the arrest, MQM called for protests in Karachi, which turned violent. The party condemned the violence, blaming "miscreants," who have nothing to do with MQM, for what happened. The Prime Minister's office similarly condemned the violence. "Though, people are restive over the arrest, Law does not warrant the loss of people's lives and properties on the pretext of reaction to the incident. The Prime Minister has directed the Government of Sindh and the law enforcement agencies to ensure the safety of lives and properties of people in Karachi," it said in a statement. MQM is based in Karachi and is a force in Sindh province's politics. It has the second-largest contingent in the provincial assembly, with 37 out of 130 seats. It styles itself as a voice for the downtrodden, the middle class and immigrants from nearby India, but political rivals accuse the party of using heavy-handed tactics, including intimidation, to stay in power. Hussain sought political asylum in the United Kingdom in 1991 because of an attempt on his life, the party has previously said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/asia/pakistan-stoning-death/index.html	world	More arrests made in stoning death of pregnant Pakistani woman - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 05:18:02 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- After a series of raids, police made new arrests in the public stoning death of a pregnant Pakistani woman, bringing the total of people in custody to 12. Farzana Parveen, 25, was killed in Lahore last month because she married a man against her family's wishes. The latest arrests include her two brothers and her ex-husband. The mob of 28 people that attacked her included members of her immediate family, authorities said. Shortly after her death, police arrested five people, including her father, her uncle, two cousins and the driver who brought the relatives to Lahore. The court is treating the death as an act of terror that has "wider consequences on the safety and well being of all of society," according to lawyer Maliha Zia of Aurat Foundation, a Pakistani women's rights organization. She said she was worried that international pressure may have forced the government to convene an anti-terrorist court in an act of "show and tell." Pakistani police officers will be investigated because they didn't intervene when Parveen was publicly beaten to death with bricks, a court official said. Such killings not uncommon Such killings often originate from tribal traditions in Pakistan but are not a part of Islam. They usually happen in rural areas, not large cities such as Lahore. Human rights activists said bystanders, including police, often don't intervene because the killings are considered family matters. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan said 869 women were victims last year in the nation of about 180 million people. Women's rights advocates say the actual number may be much higher. The United Nations estimates that at least 5,000 women worldwide die yearly in such killings. The prevalence of violence against women in Pakistan became apparent when Parveen's husband, Mohammad Iqbal, revealed to CNN that he killed his first wife six years ago so he could marry her. His son said Iqbal served a year in prison. READ: I killed my first wife, stoned Pakistani woman's husband says READ: Pakistani suspects in stoning death to go to terrorism court READ: Opinion: How stoning of a woman riled the world  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/01/world/asia/india-gang-rape/index.html	world	3 suspects confess in India gang rape - CNN.com	2014/06/01	Sunday Jun 1 06:06:02 EDT 2014	Katra Village, India (CNN) -- Three brothers have confessed to involvement in the gang rape of two teenage girls in India, a police officer told CNN. The men have pleaded guilty to the rape charges but have not admitted to killing the girls, local police spokesman Mukesh Saxena said Sunday. All five known suspects, including two police officers, have been arrested, he said. The police complaint also names two unknown people in the case. Investigations are trying to determine their identity, Saxena said. The assault on the cousins, ages 14 and 16, sparked outrage in the community in Uttar Pradesh state. After being gang raped, they were hanged from a mango tree, police said. The initial post-mortem report suggests that the two girls were alive when they were hanged, Saxena told CNN on Wednesday. "The (autopsy) report is the basis of our investigation. The cause of the death is also being verified further through various other forensic and scientific methods," he said. Villagers streamed into the homes of the girls' relatives, weeping behind their customary veils. The mother of one of the girls said her daughter wanted to become a doctor to escape grinding poverty. The attackers, she said, deserved the same fate that befell her daughter. "Hang them in public," she said. CNN cannot identify the relatives or victims under Indian law. In the northern village where the attack occurred, crowds surrounded the girls for hours after their bodies were found on May 28. They accused authorities of siding with the suspects and blocked them from taking the girls down from their nooses unless arrests were made. In addition to possible rape and murder charges, the officers face charges of conspiracy in the crime and negligence of duty after villagers accused them of failing to respond when they first pinpointed the suspects. An autopsy confirmed that the girls had been raped and strangled, according to authorities. They were cremated the same day the bodies were found, in line with Hindu customs, Saxena said. "We are scared," said Renu Devi, a woman in the village where the attack occurred. "If this could happen to them, it could happen to us also." Police under scrutiny Devi has reason to fear. The girls were in an orchard relieving themselves the night of May 27 when the attackers grabbed them, authorities said. Toilets are rare in the village, forcing women to wander away into fields in the dead of night. "There's no toilet. Where can the girls go?" shouted Jamuni Devi, another woman from the village. "No one has done anything for sanitation." Indians have more access to mobile phones than to toilets, according to a United Nations report four years ago.  "India has some 545 million cell phones, enough to serve about 45% of the population," according to the U.N. But it also has the highest number of people in the world -- an estimated 620 million -- who defecate in the open, according to UNICEF. The lack of indoor plumbing leaves women in rural areas vulnerable to frequent rapes and beatings. "It is a tragic irony to think that in India, a country now wealthy enough that roughly half of the people own phones, about half cannot afford the basic necessity and dignity of a toilet," said Zafar Adeel, chairman of the organization U.N.-Water. Unable to stop abduction Some people saw the abduction but were unable to stop it, police spokesman Saxena said, citing witnesses. His account echoed that of the father of the older victim, who alleged that a scuffle broke out between a relative and the three brothers suspected of the attack. "They scared my cousin away with a locally made pistol," he said. The daughter he lost was his only child. The victims' relatives accused local police of failing to respond and siding with the suspects when the parents reported the case. The allegations have fueled anger among the villagers. "If police wanted, my daughter would have been alive today," he said. 'Endemic' violence This Uttar Pradesh rape is the latest of several that have drawn the world's attention to India in recent years. The horrific gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old woman in New Delhi in late 2012 shook India, sparking campaigns against violent crimes against women in the country, the world's second most populous, after China. The case prompted protests in many cities, soul-searching in the media and changes to law. But shocking instances of sexual violence continue to come to light. "Laws can only do so much when you have to end something which is as endemic and as entrenched as violence against women," said Divya Iyer, a senior researcher for Amnesty International in Bangalore, India. The country's new Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, has said he wants to take steps to ensure that women are safe, particularly in rural India. But women's rights groups have criticized what they say is a lack of specific proposals to tackle the problem, suggesting that gender inequality doesn't appear to be high on his list of priorities. READ MORE: Grief, fear, blame over rapes in Indian village READ MORE: Relatives call for attackers to be hanged CNN's Harmeet Shah Singh reported from Katra Village, and Faith Karimi reported and wrote from Atlanta. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/world/europe/abdications-history/index.html	world	The royal 'I quit!': Retirements of monarchs (and a pope) - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 01:52:41 EDT 2014	Read this story at CNN Espaol: Abdica el rey de Espaa. (CNN) -- If kings and queens are able to savor the best things in life, why shouldn't they get to retire, too? It's not traditional, and it kind of goes against one of the biggest perks of being a king or queen -- a secure job for life. But it happens, as the world saw Monday. King Juan Carlos I of Spain became the latest royal to say he's stepping down. It's "time to hand over to a new generation," the 76-year-old announced in a televised address, declaring that he's leaving the job he's had for nearly four decades. His son, Crown Prince Felipe, 46, will take over. The Spanish King is one of several monarchs to step down in recent years. Queen B takes her leave In January 2013, Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands passed the crown to her son Prince Willem-Alexander. He was 46 at the time. Queen Beatrix had been ruling for more than three decades. Much beloved by the Dutch people, she tried to assure them that her retirement didn't mean she was taking off for Florida and forsaking their love. "This doesn't mean that I'm taking leave from you," she told a throng of admirers in Dam Square outside the palace in Amsterdam. Her abdication was a move marked by tradition in the Netherlands -- knowing that it's best to go out while on top, historians say. Queen Beatrix was the third successive Dutch monarch to abdicate, following her grandmother and her mother. "Beatrix's abdication wasn't controversial," explained royal commentator and historian Richard Fitzwilliams. "The people were happy with that and no one thought less of the monarchy." A father to son handoff in Belgium In July 2013, King Albert II of Belgium gave up his kingship, reportedly over concerns that he was too old to carry out his duties. Those duties include "suggesting, advising, warning and encouraging" lawmakers in the country, according to Belgium's government website. King Albert was 79 when he retired. He had ruled for 20 years. His son, a 53-year-old trained fighter pilot who became King Philippe, took over. The country had been in turmoil at the time, torn between the North and South where residents spoke different languages. A pope quits (and makes history) Europe must have been especially lovely in 2013, because even the Pope didn't want to keep working. An unprecedented "I quit" came in February when the Vatican announced that Pope Benedict XVI -- Germany's Joseph Ratzinger -- was leaving the papacy. His "advanced age" was the reason he wanted out, the Vatican said. The then-85-year-old had led the Catholic church since 2005. He became the first pope in nearly 600 years to leave the post. So what do monarchs -- and one pope -- do when they retire? Benedict's retirement hasn't been all that different from anyone else's. Archbishop Georg Ganswein told Reuters that Benedict has been doing a lot of reading, reflecting and praying. He's taking walks in the Vatican gardens, playing the piano and receiving guests at a monastery. He's mostly a homebody, making only a few public appearances, such as the canonization ceremonies for Popes John XXIII and John Paul II in April. A change of the guard in Qatar Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, the Emir of Qatar, abdicated and transferred power to his son in 2013. Sheikh Hamad, who gained power in 1995 after overthrowing his father, sent out a public message to announce his plans. "I declare that I will hand over the reins of power to Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani and I am fully certain that he is up to the responsibility, deserving the confidence, capable of shouldering the responsibility and fulfilling the mission," according to the Independent. Sheikh Hamad's decision to cede power willingly was a first in the modern history of the region. The norm is for Gulf leaders to rule for decades until their death or until circumstances conspire to overthrow them, such as the Arab Spring uprisings that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya. His son, Sheikh Tamim, became the youngest monarch in the region at the age of 33. Spanish selfies and change In Spain on Monday after the King announced his departure, tourists took selfies in front of the royal palace in Madrid. Some gazed through the gates. "Change is good, new blood could be good, why not?" said Spaniard Natividad Andres. "Everything is so unpredictable, you think about politicians that offer you one thing and give you another and things continue to work." Lola Garcia told Reuters that she worried about what the abdication indicated. "It's a shame. I'm really sorry," she said. "I don't know what's going to become of Spain and I don't like what I see coming." On Monday, the King noted in his speech that Spain had been suffering financially. "The long, deep economic crisis we are going through has left a lot of scars socially, but it has also pointed toward a future of hope," he said. Royal watcher Fitzwilliams called King Juan Carlos' abdication a "real tragedy." "He wanted to go down in history as the king who was a symbol of national unity for a very disparate Spain," Fitzwilliams said. "Spaniards -- many of them older -- are great admirers of him." There was still a "tremendous amount of good will" toward the King, he said, despite scandals that had lately rocked his rule. King Juan Carlos' popularity took a hit in 2012 when he fell and broke his hip while on a trip in Botswana, and Spanish news outlets began running a photo from the trip that showed him next to an elephant he had shot. The image appalled many Spaniards. Fitzwilliams recalled Monday, however, that the King had, in his long rule, managed to bring together fractious political groups in Spain and stop a right-wing military coup in 1981. "He's done the country enormous service," Fitzwilliams said. Could a British royal be next? The news of King Juan Carlos' abdication didn't shock British author and historian Kate Williams. "We've seen this in Belgium and the Netherlands," she said. "I think it's often thought that rule should go to someone who is young and vibrant and fun. But you will never see it in the United Kingdom. Never." Queen Elizabeth II has said that she believes the job of ruling Britain was given to her by God, and only God can take it away, Williams said. The queen staying in her job is critical to a cohesive sense of culture in Britain, she said. But it's happened before in the U.K.  There's no way Queen Elizabeth doesn't consider the shock waves sent through British society when King Edward VIII abdicated in 1936. That "haunts" the palace still, Fitzwilliams said. King Edward caused a huge stir when he declared that he wanted to marry American divorcee Wallis Simpson, an act that broke the rules of the Church of England. He gave up the throne and became the Duke of Windsor. Together, the couple toured Germany. It was reported that the former king had Nazi sympathies. He lived out the rest of his life in France. The episode is considered, Fitzwilliams said, a shame on the legacy of the British monarchy. READ: Spain's King Juan Carlos I to abdicate READ: Amanpour Blog: Juan Carlos kept Spain 'from extremism,' Constantine II says READ: King Juan Carlos: What you need to know  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/world/europe/uk-scotland-google-view/index.html	world	Murder on Google Street View? - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 10:56:48 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The images are shocking. A man apparently wielding an ax looms over a figure lying spreadeagled on the cobbled road, clad in red overalls. The first man turns to face the camera as it passes and watches, ax in hand, as it drives into the distance. Almost more disturbingly, swiveling around on Google Street View, a man stands watching the grisly scene, hand nonchalantly resting on his hip. All three faces are blurred. But the identities of the two men at the center of the tableau are far from a secret in this corner of Edinburgh. The man lying seemingly lifeless on the ground is Dan Thompson, who has owned and run the Tomson Motor Company on Giles Street -- in the Edinburgh district of Leith -- for 30 years. Above him, longtime employee Gary Kerr. Zoom closer and, through the distortion, Kerr's expression could make you shudder. The "axman" is laughing. His boss and apparent victim is chuckling too, when he describes the hoax to CNN. Thompson and Kerr have been at the center of much media attention in Britain after a local newspaper picked up the story of their Google Street View "murder." But it took a while. The photos, Thompson reckons, were taken around August 2012. "Giles Street is like a misshapen horseshoe. By chance, I saw the Street View car going in other leg. I knew it would reach us in half a minute," he says. "I had just enough time to whip in, grab Gary and a pick-ax handle and he came out to give me a so called 'Leith massage,' which is essentially being bashed." Kerr has worked at the Tomson Motor Company for more than a decade, and was "right up" for the prank, Thompson said. He said Google had apparently uploaded the images and some months later the company was alerted when one of its suppliers rang it up "in fits of laughter." Thompson said it was more than a year before someone apparently alerted the police, who he says "very properly" came around to check out the incident. "A WPC [female police officer] has her car serviced here and she said 'I know exactly what's going on here -- it's a wind up.' "They came in and said 'you guys, do you happen to know anything about this?' We explained what had happened," Thompson said. "They were smiling when they came in and were roaring with laughter when they left." Thompson said that he hadn't heard from Google about the prank but speculated that the publicity it had generated would be very good for the company. "It's nothing obscene, but now a lot more people know about Street View -- so I would think this must be a joy to them." When CNN contacted Google about the prank, the company declined to comment. Thompson fears that his tableau may not be long for the cyberworld. "Infuriatingly I think last Thursday the Street View car went past and we hadn't set anything up," he said. "I expect there will ll be a lot of copycats of this now but the trick is spotting [the Street View car] in time." As for the police, they told CNN they would "always respond to any reports of concern for personal safety."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/asia/china-guo-jian-deportation/index.html	world	China to deport Tiananmen 'pork' artist Guo Jian: Australian officials - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 04:54:47 EDT 2014	Hong Kong (CNN) -- A Chinese-Australian artist who covered a diorama of Tiananmen Square in ground pork is to be deported from China, according to Australia's Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT). Guo Jian was taken into custody last weekend, a day after The Financial Times published an interview with the artist, and photos of his latest work. The piece, called "The Square," shows the Beijing landmark covered in 160 kilograms of ground meat. In the accompanying FT article, Guo was highly critical of the actions of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) on June 4, 1989, when troops opened fire on civilians around Tiananmen Square, killing hundreds if not thousands of people. "The army is regarded as a loveable institution. But at Tiananmen I realized it's not, they will kill you if ordered to," he was quoted as saying. 'Visa-related' matter According to a DFAT spokesman, consular officers visited Guo in Beijing on June 5. They said Chinese authorities said Guo was being held on a "visa-related matter" and would be deported after 15 days' detention. Amnesty International's China researcher William Nee said the timing of Guo's deportation was "incredibly odd," given the artist has worked in the country for a number of years. "It seems incredibly odd timing that right after he gives an interview that is very moving to the FT and he comes out with a very shocking and moving piece of artwork, that is the time that the government decides to detain him about a visa-related issue," Nee said. "As far as I know, he did not leave the country or get detained for some other unrelated event. It was almost certainly due to his freedom of expression which the government did not approve of," he added. Born in China, Guo joined the PLA in the late 1970s during a recruitment drive to support the Sino-Vietnamese war, according to his website. He was just 17 years old. After leaving the army, Guo worked as a propaganda officer for a transport company and later studied art in Beijing. He told the FT he witnessed shooting near Tiananmen Square on the night of the massacre, and saw bodies stacked outside a local hospital. "Walking into the hospital, walking into the emergency room packed with bodies, the smell was much stronger than in my studio. I just couldn't do anything and wanted to throw up. I was shocked, angry, sad and hopeless," he told the FT. After the Tiananmen crackdown, Guo moved to Australia where he became a citizen and lived for 13 years. 'Don't call me' On Monday, one of Guo's friends told CNN he'd called Guo to discuss the FT article. No one answered, but the artist texted him soon after to say he was "with police," followed by another SMS: "don't call me". The friend said Guo was aware of the provocative nature of his work. "He's not nave about this stuff," he said. Prior to finishing the project, Guo asked the friend not to tell anyone about it, for fear that the authorities would stop him from working on it. Ahead of the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen massacre, authorities across the country arrested a number of prominent dissidents and critics of the government. READ: China's Tiananmen activists: Where are they now? READ: Tiananmen 25 years on: The day I drove famed hunger strikers to safety READ: China, the world remembers Tiananmen massacre CNN's Euan McKirdy and David McKenzie contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/asia/japan-robot-softbank/index.html	world	Is this the world's first emo robot? - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 05:27:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Ever feel like no one really understands you? Well "Pepper" could be about to change all that. That's because Pepper is actually a robot and touted as the world's first with the ability to read emotions. The humanoid robot -- which looks slightly like a shrunken Michelin Man -- was unveiled to curious onlookers in Tokyo stores on Friday by SoftBank, a Japanese telecom giant and Aldebaran, a French robotics company. Pepper doesn't look much like its name. Standing under four-feet tall with a tablet computer mounted to its chest, it has human-like hands and a mermaid-like lower torso  though its toddler-like voice seems incongruous with this state-of-the-art facade. Despite the high-pitched voice, Pepper is able to converse about everything from the weather, to more sophisticated topics like the latest fluctuations in the stock markets. Yet the great differentiator is the fact Pepper is fully interactive, making eye contact when meeting people. Pepper is "the first robot to read human emotions," said Softbank's CEO Masayoshi Son told reporters at a press conference in the Japanese capital on Thursday. "Robots like Pepper are adding a new dimension in our daily lives. They would change it with the same magnitude as the PC, Internet and mobile phones did." How Pepper reads your moods Using its emotion recognition functions, Pepper can react to people in its vicinity -- making jokes, dancing and even rapping (in Japanese), as it did in an onstage demonstration on Thursday. Pepper can analyze facial expressions, human voice tones and gestures, then react autonomously through algorithms, its creators say. "Our vision is to create an affectionate robot that can understand people's feelings. Then autonomously, it will take action," said Son. He envisions robots playing roles in education, healthcare and entertainment, but their primary goal isn't to work in the industry like existing robots. "Our's is not aiming for productivity, but rather at the home or store, where we provide fun and entertainment," Son said. Pepper is designed to be a family robot -- perhaps more like a sleeker version of Rosie, the household robot on the cartoon "The Jetsons." "Pepper is powered by love inside a family," Son said. "Not only is he making jokes, making them laugh. The robot acts out at its own expense, in natural disaster, it can help them and also comfort those people who are sad or lonely, encourage them or make them laugh."  When Pepper goes on sale Pepper goes on sale in Japan for around US$2,000 in February 2015. For now, several Peppers are at Softbank stores in Tokyo for spectators to visit. The creators say before releasing Pepper for sale, they want the robots to accumulate more knowledge, to evolve and get more sophisticated in its interactions with humans. "Several thousand Peppers are going to learn at the store," Son said. "Everything they learned and gained, is going to be accumulated into the cloud-based service. So that can be accelerating the evolution of the collective wisdom." Pepper functions through cloud-based artificial intelligence. SoftBank and Aldebaran envision the robot being sold overseas eventually. After all, Pepper is quite the polyglot, speaking 17 languages. CNN's Will Ripley contributed to this report from Tokyo.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/asia/afghanistan-singer-womens-rights/index.html	world	The Afghan voice that won't be silenced - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:21:05 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Dressed modestly, with a red headscarf loosely draped over her head and shoulders, she steps onto the stage and nervously paces back and forth. Waiting for the music to begin and break the silence, she almost misses her first note before quietly singing into the microphone. Her voice chokes when one of four judges turns his chair to face her; she awkwardly bows her head and smiles. But she sings more confidently when the sole female judge turns around a few minutes later. The singer is through to the next stage. In a country ranked by a Thomson Reuters Foundation poll as the most dangerous place in the world for women in 2011, what Shabana Faryad did was brave. Very brave. Faryad was the only female contestant to have auditioned for the first series of "The Voice of Afghanistan" last year. And the claps and cheers that loudly resounded throughout the studio came from an audience of men. Aryana Sayeed -- a popular Afghan singer who was a judge on the show -- said she turned her chair around purely because the contestant was a woman. "I had to do it," she said. "She at least had the courage to come along, to step onto the stage." But Sayeed says her own appearance on the show put her life at risk. Dressed in fashionable, figure-hugging attire, certain religious hard liners were angered by the fact that her wardrobe lacked one item: a headscarf. In the view of her critics, women should be covered and compliant. As a result, Sayeed says mullahs threatened her with death. "They said that whoever kills this singer would go to heaven," she recalls. "It was getting really difficult, I couldn't go anywhere. I was basically a prisoner in my hotel room, I had bodyguards with me all the time." Sayeed, 28, was born and raised in Kabul and left at the age of eight with her parents and five sisters for Pakistan, where she lived for a few years before heading to Switzerland. She eventually settled in London in 2000. War and violence forced her family to flee her Afghanistan. "All I have seen and have grown up with is war, guns and problems," she says, recalling an incident when a rocket hit a tree in her garden in the early hours of the morning while she and her family were sleeping. "We used to hear the gunshots all the time, it had become so normal," Sayeed says. "You heard them while you were just sitting there talking and it didn't even scare you. I remember all that when I was a child." At the age of 24, after convincing her family to allow her to pursue a career as a singer -- a profession which she says is looked down upon for Afghan women -- Sayeed rose to fame in her homeland and travelled back and forth for television appearances and concerts. She released 'Lady of the Land of Fire,' her first female-empowerment song, last year. It opens with provocative scenes of the violence and oppression experienced by Afghan women. "Who says I am a mother to this world?" Sayeed sings. "I am nothing but a burden on the son's shoulders, I am a slave because I am a wife, I am a headache when I am a sister." The video, shot on the streets of Kabul, was released during the time when the singer was receiving death threats. Softly spoken yet self-assured, Sayeed says she is targeted because of her openness about women's rights and not just because of how she dresses. "If I just did my concerts and my music, most of these extremists would not have cared so much as they are caring right now." She also feels her aims are misinterpreted and that women should have the freedom to choose how they dress. "When I talk about freedom and women's rights, it's not that you have to take your scarves off. I never say that. My mum wears a scarf and I respect that." The gallery at the top of this page shows the contrast between Afghanistan, past and present: during the 1950s to 1970s, women could walk the streets in skirts and high heels -- a far cry from the usual burqa-clad images which circulate today. "My mum was somebody who had chosen to wear a scarf, whereas my auntie would wear short skirts," recalls Sayeed. "They were free to do whatever they wanted... My aunt is now having to cover up. She even has to cover up the new generation, her children, even more than her. It's unbelievable." Sayeed is reminded of a story another aunt told her, about how she was walking down the street wearing a burqa and white slippers. Members of the Taliban, in power from 1994 to 2001, saw her and beat her -- for wearing the color of their flag on her feet. "This was a 60-year-old woman who had the freedom, when she was young, to go to school, work, have a normal life. And now, even though she was wearing a burqa, they picked on her because of her shoes." Sayeed says she regularly receives a barrage of abusive messages on her Facebook page, criticizing her for dressing liberally. But she is driven by those who value her work, especially girls and women who write appreciative letters and embrace her after concerts. However, there are some fans she is particularly concerned about: after holding a ladies-only concert a couple of months ago, she received messages pleading for help. She says mullahs had seen clips of a group of females attending the show -- and labelled them as whores. "They were so scared; they only came out [to the concert] because of me," Sayeed says. Despite the singer's efforts to reply and offer help, she has not heard back from them. "It's something that's stuck in my mind." She pauses, her voice slightly breaking. "I'm thinking about it all the time." But Afghanistan has seen some advances. Women appearing on TV were forbidden under Taliban rule: times have changed with shows like "The Voice." Women also have a say in the current presidential elections. Their right to vote was reinstated after U.S. and allied military toppled the Taliban in 2001. "To other people it's just an election, but it's such an emotional time for me," says Sayeed, "looking at these women voting with ink on their fingers and so much passion and hope. They have a choice to choose a leader now, before it was never the case." Personal reasons may stop her from participating as a judge on season two of "The Voice," set to run soon, she explains. But she asserts that the threats have not disheartened her. Her next single, "Champion," will be released this year and bears another powerful message on women's rights. "Champion is about, no matter what you say to me, no matter what you do to me, I'm not going to give up." Fact is, there isn't much that can stop Sayeed from carrying out her advocacy, which she feels is her duty to her fellow Afghan women. "For me, since I've been travelling to Afghanistan, seen the women, heard the stories, seen the country from close, it has affected me so much. It has become my number one priority, more than anything else, even my music. And I'm going to carry on doing it." READ: Afghan election heads for June runoff READ: Women could make the difference as Afghanistan turns out to vote  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/europe/polands-mini-sahara-desert/index.html	travel	No, its not a mirage, Poland does have a mini Sahara desert - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 05:34:53 EDT 2014	Editor's note: 25 years since Poland's first partly free elections, CNN's On the Road series visits the country looking at how it has been transformed since the fall of communism while taking a deeper look at its customs and culture. Watch reports on CNN TV from June 2 (CNN) -- No, it's not a mirage: there really is a desert in the middle of Poland. The Bledow desert -- or, as some prefer to call it, the Polish Sahara -- has been flummoxing visitors for centuries. Its sprawling sands are entirely at odds with an otherwise verdant country that boasts four lush lake districts, and 30% of which is covered by thick forest. More bizarre still is the conservation project funded by the EU to preserve this barren anomaly. Multi-million dollar financing has been provided to help safeguard the Polish desert, through deforestation and the eradication of native plant life. The desert is shrinking, thanks to the return of native fauna, such as pine and fir trees. Money from Natura 2000, a European Union-wide initiative to preserve fragile ecosystems, is trying to stop it. "Some people would say why bother? Just let it grown green, let the vegetation grow, let the trees grow. Why not?" says Magdalena Moro, of the Desert Rejuvenation Program. It's a good question. But far from being man made, the Bledow first came to be via a combination of natural and unnatural factors. In the 13th century, the forest here was felled to foster silver and lead mining. It revealed a hitherto hidden deep layer of sand, deposited by waters flowing from melting glaciers perhaps a century before. Humankind's destruction of native plant life, in league with the natural deposit of sand, created the desert. In the beginning, this dusty expanse measured 150 square kilometers. Today, thanks to the encroaching trees planted in the 1950s by neighboring locals fed up of sweeping sand from their villages, it now commands a dinky 32 square kilometers. But while it might not quite be the bona fide Sahara, Moro insists: "This place is worth fighting for. It's worth working on it to make sure it doesn't disappear off the map." It's true that Bledow has carved a unique place in its home country's history. The desert's eerie emptiness on the fringes of Chechlo village, southern Poland, has long fascinated passers-by (in 1924, a tourist even reported seeing a mirage here). During World War II, it was used to train occupying German troops before they went to the North African front. For Moro, the desert's future rests on it remaining a unique part of Poland. "It's the only natural desert in our area, (so it's) a very big attraction for Poland and Europe," she says. "We are planning to have a lot of tourism here." The conservation project's objectives are to stabilize the desert, establish nature trails, produce a guidebook and attract 1,000 visitors to this sandy oddity a year. But, unlike the camels that this desert doesn't have, it remains to be seen whether the idea of the Polish Sahara as a major tourist attraction will hold water. 25 years of change: How Poland and its pope made it look easy The Best of Poland Read more about CNN's sponsorship policy  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/asia/afghanistan-violence/index.html	world	Afghan candidate's convoy attacked - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 06:43:38 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- At least six people were killed and more than a dozen others injured when explosions hit a campaign rally for one of Afghanistan's two presidential runoff candidates at a hotel in Kabul on Friday, an Interior Ministry spokesman said. The convoy of candidate Abdullah Abdullah was attacked in Kabul, spokesman Sediq Sediqqi told CNN. Abdullah and his running mates were not hurt, but the candidate's car was severely damaged, Sediqqi said. There were two explosions, Sediqqi said: One was a suicide attack and the other a possible roadside bomb. Video from the scene showed hotel windows blown out and police securing the area. Abdullah and Ashraf Ghani are campaigning for Afghanistan's June 14 runoff election to succeed Hamid Karzai. Abdullah, a former foreign minister, garnered 45% of the vote in the first round, and Ghani, a former finance minister, earned 31%. READ: Afghan election heads for June runoff READ: Obama outlines foreign policy vision of 'might and right' READ: The Afghan voice that won't be silenced  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/africa/boko-haram-village-raids/index.html	world	Reports: Boko Haram village raids kill hundreds in Nigeria - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 12:25:43 EDT 2014	Kano, Nigeria (CNN) -- Hundreds of people were killed in raids by Boko Haram Islamic militants in northeast Nigeria's Borno state, on the border with Cameroon, with some sources putting the death toll at 400 to 500. On Tuesday, heavily armed men dressed as soldiers in all-terrain vehicles and on motorcycles attacked neighboring Goshe, Attagara, Agapalwa and Aganjara villages in Gwoza district, shooting residents to death and burning homes. The attacks forced surviving villagers to flee to Cameroon and into the Mandara Mountains on the border. "The killings are massive. Nobody can say how many people were killed, but the figure runs into some hundreds," said Peter Biye, a lawmaker in Nigeria's lower parliament representing the Gwoza region. "The area is still under the control of the insurgents, and residents can't go back to bury the dead because of the danger involved," he said. On Wednesday, a military jet bombarded Boko Haram positions to dislodge the militants from the villages they have occupied, forcing them to temporarily withdraw. "They returned immediately after the jet left, making it too risky for villagers to return to bury the dead," Biye said. Dead bodies litter the area around the attacked villages. Ground troops have yet to go to the area to push out the insurgents, he said. The attackers, who posed as soldiers, told residents they had come to protect them from Boko Haram and asked them to assemble. They singled out men and boys and opened fire on them, Biye said. A local leader in Attagara village, who fled to nearby Madagali town in neighboring Adamawa state, said the death toll was staggering. "The death is unimaginable. We have lost between 400 and 500 people in the attacks in which men and male children were not spared," said the local leader, who asked not to be named for security reasons. "The gunmen pursued on motorcycle people who fled into the bush in a bid to escape and shot them dead. "Even nursing mothers had their male infants snatched from their backs and shot dead before their eyes," the local leader said. The insurgents destroyed mobile phone towers in the region, so news of attacks is usually slow to emerge and verification of death tolls difficult to obtain. If the death toll is confirmed, it will be the worst attack by Boko Haram in its five-year insurgency that has killed thousands, mostly in the northeast. Boko Haram: A bloody insurgency, a growing challenge On May 5, the group killed 315 people in the town of Gamboru Ngala on the border with Cameroon not far from Gwoza, where they burned a market, businesses and several homes. Meanwhile, dozens of Boko Haram fighters stormed Madagali town early Thursday, burning a church and a local government administrative building after subduing military and police personnel, a local official said. Residents said two civilians were killed in crossfire during a shootout between soldiers and the gunmen. "They came around 6 a.m. ... in 10 all-terrain vehicles and on several motorcycles, all dressed in military uniforms," said Maina Ularamu, a Madagali local government chairman. The gunmen overran a police checkpoint, forcing policemen to flee, and then opened fire on a military checkpoint just outside the town, where they engaged soldiers in a shootout. After overwhelming the soldiers who withdrew from the checkpoint, the gunmen attacked and burned a Roman Catholic church and a local government office opposite it, Ularamu said. 4 Nigerian villages reeling after Boko Haram attack: 'We lost many people' Nigeria backtracks on ban on protests for kidnapped girls in capital Boko Haram raids Nigerian villages, killing 35  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/africa/somalia-aid-workers/index.html	world	Aid workers freed in Somalia after nearly two years - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 06:52:51 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Three aid workers kidnapped in Somalia have been released after nearly two years in captivity. International Aid Services said the kidnappers seized their employees in July 2012 in Puntland, Somalia. "Extended discussions with the actual kidnappers resulted in the release of the hostages," the relief agency said in a statement.  The three were abducted while traveling in two cars that included three local police officers, who were wounded but not kidnapped during the attack. The three hostages, Janet Kanga, Martin Kioko and Abdinoor Boru, were released Thursday, according to the relief agency. United Nations officials helped transport them to a safe location, where they'll be held until they're reunited with their relatives in Kenya. CNN's Brian Walker contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/asia/pakistan-taliban-commander-killed/index.html	world	Key Pakistan Taliban commander gunned down amid deadly infighting - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 03:49:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A suicide bombing "mastermind" in the Pakistan Taliban has been gunned down and killed in the country's northeastern tribal region, just days after a major faction in the militant group announced it was breaking away over ideological differences. Gunmen riding in a car attacked Ashiqullah Mehsud, a senior commander in the leadership of the group known formally as the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), in the village of Urmuz in North Waziristan on Thursday before speeding off, sources told CNN. No group has claimed responsibility for the attack, while the TTP has yet to issue a statement. Mehsud was viewed as a successor to Qari Hussain Mehsud, the militant group's explosives expert whose notoriety includes allegedly recruiting children as suicide bombers. Deadly infighting Pakistani intelligence sources believe the incident is the result of internal rivalries between TTP factions. The Pakistan Taliban has been beset with months of deadly infighting, culminating in an announcement early this month by the group's Mehsud faction that it would be going its own way after failing to convince the leadership to give up what it said were "un-Islamic" practices, such as attacks in public places, extortion and kidnappings. It's the first split since the TTP -- a coalition of militant groups -- was founded in 2007, seeking to establish its version of sharia law across Pakistan. Tensions within the TTP escalated after the group's leader, Hakimullah Mehsud, was killed in a U.S. drone strike in November last year, setting off a power struggle among top commanders of the TTP that led to violent clashes in which dozens of people were killed. Appointed by a tribal council, Mullah Fazlullah has stood at the helm of the TPP since Mehsud's death. He hails from the country's Swat valley and is the first TTP leader who is not a Mehsud. He has struggled to contain the internal frictions among the group's factions, especially those within the Mehsud tribe, which makes up the majority of the TTP. In a statement released last month, Azam Tariq, a spokesman for the breakaway Mehsuds, said the TTP leadership had "fallen into the hands of a bunch of conspirators ... involved in criminal activities like robbery and extortion." READ: Will internal split weaken Pakistan Taliban? READ: Pakistan Taliban say cease-fire with government is over Zahir Shah Sherazi in Peshawar contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/asia/japan-child-pornography/index.html	world	After long wait, Japan moves to ban possession of child pornography - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 05:21:15 EDT 2014	Tokyo (CNN) -- In most of Japan, it's still legal to possess child pornography. Although production and distribution have been banned for 15 years, Japan lags behind other major developed nations in forbidding people from simply holding the sinister material. That is about to change in a country regarded as a global nexus of child pornography. The country's upper house of parliament is expected to pass legislation this month making possession of it a crime punishable by up to a year in prison. Children's rights activists have applauded the step, although their reaction is tempered with frustration that it has taken such a long time. "As a member of a group that's been hearing the voice of the victims for many years, we welcome the news," said Shihoko Fujiwara, a representative of Lighthouse, a nonprofit group that helps exploited children. "Japan took so long, and it is too late to reach this decision as a developed country." The proposed law, which was already approved by the lower house of parliament this week, comes with a couple of noteworthy loopholes. When it goes into effect, it will give those already in possession of child pornography a year to dispose of it. And it won't cover the country's popular manga (comic book) and anime (animation) industries, which include depictions of violent sexual abuse of children in their publications. Fujiwara said a discussion about some of the imagery in manga and anime -- content that would be illegal in many Western countries -- would be a natural "next step." 'A necessary evil' But representatives of those industries say that while they support the ban on real child pornography, any move to censor their products would be an unjustified restriction of freedom of expression. Daisuke Okeda, a lawyer and inspector for the Japan Animation Creators Association, said it was "natural that animation is exempted." "The goal of the law itself is to protect children from crime," he said. "Banning such expression in animation under this law would not satisfy the goal of the law." Okeda said that no studies have been done that prove any link between pedophilia and animation in Japan. Hiroshi Chiba, the manager of Chiba Tetsuya Production, one of the country's best known manga production houses, said that more could be done in terms of age restrictions on graphic content featuring children and to distinguish it more clearly from other comics. And he admitted that some products of the industry leave him and his colleagues "disgusted." "But rich, deep culture is born from something that might not be accepted by all," Chiba said. "We need to allow the gray zone to exist as a necessary evil." 'An international hub' Some experts counter that children suffer in a culture that appears to tolerate images of child sexual abuse. Hiromasa Nakai, a public affairs officer for UNICEF in Japan, pointed to the graphic content in manga, anime and some video games, as well as the "junior idol" genre of books and DVDs that display minors wearing tiny bikinis and striking sexual poses. Japan should do more -- beyond the proposed law change -- "to protect the best interest of children," Nakai said. Statistics show that child pornography remains a big problem in Japan. The U.S. State Department's 2013 report on human rights practices in Japan labels the country "an international hub for the production and trafficking of child pornography." It cited Japanese police data showing the number of child pornography investigations in 2012 rose 9.7% from a year earlier to a record of 1,596. The cases involved 1,264 child victims, almost twice as many as in the previous year. The fact that possession remains legal, for the time being, "continued to hamper police efforts to enforce the law effectively and participate fully in international law enforcement," the report said. Girls as sex objects One local authority already took matters into its own hands. The prefecture of Kyoto in central Japan introduced a ban on possession of child pornography in 2011. But Nakai said addressing the problems isn't just a matter for government, suggesting parents, the media, the private sector and even children themselves can play a role in improving the situation. The portrayal of young girls as sex objects in Japan has long raised eyebrows among Westerners. An article in Wired in 1999 reeled off a list of examples in Tokyo: "Vending machines sell schoolgirls' used panties, which the girls sell to middlemen. 'Image bars' specialize in escorts dressed in school uniforms. Telephone clubs feature bored adolescent girls earning spending money by talking dirty. Sex shops sell a porn magazine called 'Anatomical Illustrations of Junior High School Girls.'" Some experts suggest the situation is born out of Japan's long-established patriarchal society. Whatever the cause, changing a culture may prove a lot harder than changing a law. CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki reported from Tokyo, and Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Junko Ogura and Will Ripley contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/meast/new-frontier-emerging-markets/index.html	world	A new frontier: UAE and Qatar lift off as new MSCI emerging markets - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 02:47:17 EDT 2014	Watch Marketplace Middle East every week on CNN International. Click here for the show times. Dubai, UAE (CNN) -- Call it a perfect market storm of wealth creation. Since the start of 2013, the Dubai stock market has registered a near 200% gain to become the best performing financial market in the world. The Gulf emirate's securing of the World Expo in 2020 is likely one factor behind this success as is the wider UAE's reputation as a safe-haven in a region riddled with uncertainty. Oil averaging more than $100 a barrel for three years running, meanwhile, is driving growth towards record spending on infrastructure. The UAE has "a strong balance sheet" and lot of "promising prospects," said Alia Moubayed, research director at Barclays when asked about the reasons behind investor bullishness over the last 18 months. Some even believe there's more to come before the Dubai Index tops out. "The Dow Jones exceeded 165,000 points," said veteran Dubai trader Zakaria Al-Assar. "Still, Dubai (is at) 5,000, we are looking for more, inshallah." These strong expectations have led to an upgrade for the UAE from the riskier investor category of frontier market to emerging market by financial index firm, MSCI. Alongside neighboring Qatar, which was also upgraded this week, the UAE is now considered by MSCI to have the same investment status as the likes of China and Brazil. This change while likely increase investor confidence in the region leading to an increased flow of investment dollars into the Persian Gulf states. "You will get a level of comfort as an EM (emerging market) fund manager when you are upgraded to this level," said head of equities at NBAD Asset Management, Saleem Khokhar. "On top of that you will see more and more institutions beginning to play in this space so yes it is a game changer but don't bring it into a short time frame." Read: Is Middle East new global aviation hub? Achieving emerging market status has been a long journey for both Qatar and the UAE. The UAE has been knocking on the door since 2009. But some fund managers suggest this delay actually helped the country's markets and companies mature. Nine companies will represent the UAE in the MSCI index, including property groups Aldar, Arabtec and Emaar. The gigantic port company DP World and the Dubai Financial Market itself will also feature. Yet with recognition comes attention and volatility. The trading floors in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha may be quaint, with limited trading sessions, but they are active. On the day CNN visited the Dubai exchange, banking stocks were trading up 15% after a wild correction earlier in the month. "You have to remember just a couple of weeks ago we went through quite a correction and a number of blue chip stocks we were looking at came down between 20-30%," said Khokhar. After being overlooked for many years, these markets are just coming into focus for many international investors. Expect more bumps, shocks and opportunities along the way. Read: The Middle East's king of hotels Read: Gulf looks to rival Paris fashions Read: Gas fields could unite Cyprus  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/asia/singapore-strange-consular-requests/index.html	world	Unhappy with sex services? Don't call us, Singapore says - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 02:00:15 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A foreign minister clearly frustrated with some of his own countrymen has taken to Facebook to expose some of the stranger requests received by consular staff. "Can the government get involved if a Singaporean gets illegal sexual services overseas, but is not satisfied and wants a refund? The answer seems obvious," writes K. Shanmugam, the country's minster for foreign affairs, with an almost audible sigh. The exasperated minister went on to list other examples with the plea: "We have to draw the line between what is personal responsibility and what's not." Where to draw the line? Personal responsibility could include the lovelorn citizen who asked the foreign office to convince his girlfriend to marry him. And then there was the KFC customer who alleged racial discrimination over the size of his fried chicken. "He wanted MFA to investigate this instance and seek justice in that foreign country for the unfair treatment he claimed to have received. We told him we could not do that," the minister writes. Nor could the country help the Singaporean living in Indonesia who requested the foreign office help ship a computer ordered online from the United States. Singapore's consular officials handled 3,000 cases last year, filed by Singaporeans who made some seven million trips abroad. That number is dwarfed by the volume of requests received by larger countries including the United Kingdom, whose Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) handled more than 52,000 cases the same year. It's not just Singaporeans In what seems to have become an annual warning to potential time-wasters, the FCO released a list last May of some of its most misdirected queries. They include the man who asked consular staff in Rome to translate a phrase for his new tattoo, and a woman who complained about the poor quality of football boots "made in China." So bizarre were some of the requests made to the foreign office in Australia that it was suggested the country consider charging a fee for consular assistance. In a policy brief, "Consular Conundrum," published in March 2013, author Alex Oliver lays out the case for a charge, nothing that "expectations of what our diplomats can or should do for distressed travelers overseas are climbing, and in some cases becoming more unrealistic." According to the report, some of the stranger requests to the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) include: "Will the sand in Egypt upset my asthma?" and "Could DFAT feed my dogs while I'm away?" In the past, Canadian officials have also found the need to remind travelers of what they can and cannot do. In 2011, the then minister of foreign affairs Diana Ablonczy spelled it out in a press release: "Consular officials CANNOT (her capitals): ask your mother-in-law to leave your house, purchase tickets for a musical or entertainment event, settle disputes between you and your partner (and), pickup your dog at the airport." You've been warned.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/world/europe/ukraine-crisis/index.html	world	Conflicting accounts in heightened eastern Ukraine fighting - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 07:11:24 EDT 2014	Donetsk, Ukraine (CNN) -- Conflicting accounts emerged Wednesday from heightened fighting in eastern Ukraine, with a Ukrainian government official claiming forces loyal to Kiev had inflicted heavy losses on separatists and a pro-Russia official boasting that militants had downed government jets and helicopters. A Ukrainian government spokesman claimed that more than 300 pro-Russia militants had been killed and at least 500 wounded during an ongoing Ukrainian military operation in the towns of Krasny Liman and Slovyansk. The self-declared separatist mayor of Slovyansk, however, said only 10 separatist fighters had died and 12 were injured in the fighting. CNN could not immediately confirm either report. But CNN's Tim Lister, reporting from Donetsk, Ukraine, questioned the government account, saying it would be "incredibly difficult" to confirm such a body count amid the heightened fighting. "It would be a dramatic escalation on anything we've ever seen before," he said. Ukrainian anti-terror spokesman Vladislav Seleznev said two Ukrainian soldiers also died and 45 were wounded in the fighting Tuesday night, part of an ongoing military operation meant to sweep pro-Russia militants from eastern Ukraine strongholds where the government claims they have been hiding in hospitals, medical clinics and recreational facilities. On the separatist side, the self-declared mayor of Slovyansk, Vyacheslav Ponomarev, said pro-Russia fighters had shot down two Ukrainian jets and destroyed a tank and four armored personnel carriers in Tuesday's fighting. On Wednesday, militants shot down two Ukrainian helicopters, claimed. While the casualty figures conflict, what is not in doubt is the dramatic uptick in violence in separatist-held areas of eastern Ukraine. Video emerged Wednesday of damage to a hospital in Krasny Liman after it was hit by five rockets. The facility, which serves mainly railway workers, was hit Tuesday, according to Vladimir Seliyvanov, with Dontesk Railways. Four people, including a surgeon, were wounded in the attack, he added. The images showed the impact of several detonations and many broken windows at the hospital. It's not clear if the hospital was hit because militants were thought to be taking cover there or because of inaccurate targeting. Seliyvanov would not comment on whether injured separatists were being treated there. At the nearby railway station, one man was killed in what appears to have been another rocket attack. The official Donetsk Regional Authority says that clashes in Slovyansk continue. "Terrorists are trying to escape (the) encirclement together with civilians evacuating from the area. The Ukrainian military is taking measures to identify militants in order not to let them escape." In Luhansk, the government said separatist fighters had taken over two military bases, one run by the Border Guard and the other by the National Guard. Border Guard troops retreated from their base after it had been heavily damaged in 12 hours of fighting on Monday, the Border Guard Service said on its website. Separatists then moved in, the agency said. The Ukrainian National Guard said troops at its base in Luhansk used up all their ammunition trying unsuccessfully to fight off an attack. Video from a National Guard base in the city appeared to show its detachment surrendering to separatists early Wednesday. The National Guard said three of its troops were inured and six attackers killed. The other troops at the base had been safely relocated, it said. CNN could not independently confirm the casualty figures. The heightened fighting comes as U.S. President Barack Obama visits Ukrainian neighbor Poland. Obama met with Ukrainian President-elect Petro Poroshenko on Wednesday, when the U.S. leader vowed to stand with Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression. "We will not accept Russia's occupation of Crimea or its violation of Ukraine's sovereignty," Obama said in Warsaw. "Our free nations will stand united so that further Russian provocations will only mean more isolation and costs for Russia." READ: Ukrainian official: Five militants killed in attack on border guard base in Luhansk READ: Obama vows to stand with Ukraine as he meets President-elect in Poland READ: Opinion: Will Ukraine's 'Candy Man' deliver the goods? Journalist Azad Safarov reported from Donetsk and journalist Victoria Butenko reported from Kiev. CNN's Michael Pearson wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh, Laura Smith-Spark and Jim Acosta also contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/world/europe/2-held-on-terrorism-charges-in-england/index.html	world	British police arrest 2 on terrorism charges - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 12:01:12 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- British police say officers from the Counter Terrorism Command, SO15, have arrested two men in Dover on suspicion of preparing for acts of terrorism. The men, 26 and 44 years old, were taken into custody late Tuesday night, police said. Their names were not released. They are being held at a south London police station, police said. Officers are searching two addresses in west London and an address in Hertfordshire as part of the investigation, police said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/world/americas/brazil-world-cup/index.html	world	Brazil's President hosts dinner to defend World Cup preps - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 10:08:11 EDT 2014	Brasilia, Brazil (CNN) -- With just a little more than a week until the first kickoff of the 2014 World Cup, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff hosted a dinner for international journalists and countered criticism that too much money was spent on stadiums while infrastructure projects languished. Rousseff told her guests that many of the country's ambitious infrastructure plans were never intended to be finished for the World Cup, but the mega sporting event was simply used as an excuse to get projects off the ground. "Nobody builds a metro in two years," she said on the a terrace of the presidential residence, Palacio da Alvorada, designed by renowned Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer. Of the 143 billion reais ($63 billion) earmarked for infrastructure projects, only 8 to 9 billion reais were meant to be used specifically during the Cup. "The rest isn't for the Cup, it's for Brazil," she said. With the June 12 kickoff just around the corner, Brazil has seen a series of protests and strikes against World Cup projects, as well as criticism over construction delays and cost overruns. Drug gangs rule favelas away from World Cup crackdown But Rousseff said Brazilians would start to go football crazy as soon as the national team steps on the pitch in the inaugural match against Croatia. She pointed to a 49% jump in the sales of televisions as a sign that Brazilians were anxiously awaiting the event. "That's how we watch the games. Not in the stadium. We get everyone together in front of the biggest TV," she said. "If Brazil wins, we go to the street." The President fielded questions and told stories over a buffet dinner that featured Brazilian beef, French wine, a traditional seafood stew known as muqueca and tapioca ice cream -- although she skipped dessert herself. When asked whether she thought it was a mistake to host World Cup matches in 12 different cities instead of the minimum eight cities required by FIFA, Rousseff said the international football association chose the cities and added that now was not the time to ask what could have been done differently. FIFA has always said Brazil insisted on the 12 cities to ensure the whole country was involved in the World Cup. It's a delicate moment for Rousseff, who will run for a second term in October's presidential elections. For many Brazilians, the success of the World Cup and even of the Brazilian team are tied up with her electoral prospects. Rousseff is the favorite, but her margin has steadily declined, making it highly likely that there will be a runoff vote. A survey released Tuesday by the Pew Research Center found 72% of Brazilians were "dissatisfied with the way things are going in their country" and 61% said they thought hosting the World Cup "was a bad thing" because it took money away from schools, health care and other public services. At the Tuesday night dinner, Rousseff said she didn't think the World Cup should be politicized and even went on to talk about her time as a political prisoner during the Brazilian dictatorship, something she rarely discusses. "I spent the 1970 World Cup in jail. I think something like a World Cup is independent from politics," she said. A victory for the Brazil squad would be a success for the country, not for her presidency or her party, she said. Rousseff also reiterated her view that the recent demonstrations were a sign of a functioning democracy and said they would be allowed as long as there wasn't any vandalism, violence or attempts to disrupt the games. Over the leisurely dinner that lasted for more than three hours, the President also talked about some of her favorite TV series -- "Downton Abbey" and the first two seasons of "House of Cards" -- and authors, such as Jane Austen and Leonardo Padura. The President appeared relaxed and smiling throughout the evening, even telling the table of journalists about the time she "escaped" on the back of a red Harley-Davidson with a friend and drove around Brasilia unbeknownst to her security detail. Rousseff said she has high hopes for Brazil in the Cup and plans to attend the opening and closing ceremonies, but will watch the other games on TV. And if Brazil's football archenemy Argentina were to win? "You would hear the biggest silence in the country," she said. "But I don't think it will happen." INTERACTIVE: Brazil by the numbers INTERACTIVE: The football team that defected CNN MONEY: Sex motels get busy for Brazil World Cup  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/world/americas/castro-complains-cuba/index.html	world	Fidel Castro to Cubans: Keep me in the loop - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 04:27:18 EDT 2014	Havana, Cuba (CNN) -- Former Cuban President Fidel Castro published a thinly-veiled complaint Tuesday that he is not being kept up to date on happenings in Cuba. In a short note signed by Castro, 87, on the front page of the Cuban communist party daily Granma, Castro lamented that he was tardy in paying his respects at the passing of Eugenio George, the longtime coach of Cuba's female volleyball team. George, 81, died Saturday and was buried the next day, according to Castro's note. "Many comrades noticed the absence of a floral arrangement from us," Castro wrote. "I always admired him but did not know of his passing until some hours later." During his 47 years in power, Castro was famous for his marathon speeches and micromanagement of Cuba's economy and international affairs. But following a still-undisclosed intestinal illness in 2006, Castro was forced to step down, eventually being replaced by his brother Raul as President in 2008. Absent from public view for months at a time, Castro briefly returned to the spotlight in 2012 when he began to publish short "reflections" columns in the Cuban state press. But Castro stopped publishing the columns, which detailed varied topics such as the former leader's interest in yoga and medicinal plants, after he said he no longer had time to write. Castro is still referred to as "the historic leader" of the Cuban revolution by the island's state-run press and government officials say he is consulted before major decisions are taken. But in May, Bolivian President Evo Morales, a close ally to Cuba, told the Spanish language edition of the magazine Vanity Fair that Castro "isn't aware of what's going on any more."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/meast/iraq-violence/index.html	world	23 killed in clashes in Iraqi city of Samarra, health officials say - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 02:04:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Gunmen attacked several security checkpoints in the Iraqi city of Samarra on Thursday morning, sparking hours of deadly fighting with Iraqi security forces, police officials in Samarra said. At least 23 people were killed and 33 others were injured in the fighting, health officials there said. The attackers are suspected to be members of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, an al Qaeda splinter group known by the acronym ISIS, police said. Samarra is a predominantly Sunni Muslim city, about 100 kilometers (62 miles) north of Baghdad. Iraq has been plagued by sectarian and political violence, some of it fueled by widespread discontent among Sunni Muslims, who say they are marginalized by the Shiite Muslim-led government and unfairly targeted by brutal security tactics. ISIS has also fought in Iraq and neighboring Syria for a home for its brand of hard-line Islamism. Last year was the deadliest in Iraq since 2008, with more than 8,800 people killed, most of them civilians, according to the United Nations.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/world/meast/syria-unrest/index.html	world	Syrian President al-Assad re-elected, state media reports - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 03:19:58 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Syrian President Bashar al-Assad was re-elected in the country's first presidential vote since its civil war broke out three years ago, state-run television reported Wednesday. Al-Assad received 88.7% of Tuesday's vote, the state media outlet said, in an election that took place only in areas controlled by the government. Rebels hold significant parts of the north and east of the country. Opposition groups and many Western countries have said the voting was rigged and that al-Assad's two little-known challengers -- Hassan al-Nouri, a businessman and former government minister, and Maher Hajjar, a lawmaker -- were just window dressing to give the undertaking a veneer of democracy. But the Syrian government has dismissed any criticism of the process. Al-Nouri received 4.3% of the vote, and Hajjar received 3.2%, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported, citing Parliament Speaker Mohammad Jihad al-Laham. The voting comes as war continues to rage in Syria. The United Nations estimates more than 100,000 people have been killed in the Middle Eastern nation since an uprising began in March 2011. That includes more fighting on Wednesday. The Local Coordination Committees in Syria, a network of opposition activists, reports on its Facebook page that at least 24 people were killed in violence nationwide, including eight in Aleppo province and six in and around Damascus. In a nod to this ongoing warfare, al-Assad urged people not to fire guns into the air as an "expression of our joy and enthusiasm" -- saying doing so threatens citizens' lives and dishonors Syrian troops on the frontlines. In a posting on the presidency's Facebook page, cited by SANA, al-Assad told citizens to voice their feelings about the vote "in a way that reflects our high morals and civilization as Syrians." Yet not everyone believed the election was worth celebrating -- or that it should have been held at all. The office of U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon had urged the Syrian government not to hold the election, warning it would "damage the political process and hamper the prospects for a political solution" to the civil war. The Islamic Front, one of the largest armed rebel groups, claimed the al-Assad government was blackmailing people to vote in what it called a fake election. The British Foreign Office said the vote would "be a grotesque parody of democracy," and the U.S. State Department said the al-Assad government took steps "to make it difficult if not impossible to have a fair and free election in Syria." The Syrian government said election monitors from the United States, the European Union or the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe wouldn't be present, but observers from some other countries would be. Syria isn't renowned for holding free and fair elections. When al-Assad came to power 14 years ago, he ran unopposed, securing more than 99% of the vote, according to state media. Seven years later, he won again with a similarly mountainous share of the vote. His father, Hafez al-Assad, ruled Syria with an iron fist for 29 years before he died in 2000. What to know about Bashar al-Assad CNN's Jason Hanna and Greg Botelho contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/world/africa/libya-violence/index.html	world	Red Cross official fatally shot in Libya - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 11:00:26 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A Red Cross official who had worked in Iraq, Sudan, Yemen and Gaza was shot dead Wednesday in Libya, the organization said. Gunmen attacked the vehicle of Michael Greub, 42, around midday as he left a meeting with two colleagues in the Mediterranean Sea city of Sirte, the International Committee of the Red Cross said. Libya's state-run news agency, LANA, reported that masked gunmen in a car with tinted windows opened fire and killed Greub, who headed the Red Cross' unit based about 150 miles (245 kilometers) away in Misrata. His driver and an escort escaped unharmed, LANA said. "We are devastated and outraged," ICRC Director-General Yves Daccord said in a statement. "Michael was a devoted humanitarian who spent many years of his life helping others." The Red Cross said Greub, a Swiss national, had been with the international aid organization for the past seven years. He moved to his latest stop, Misrata, in March. Sirte was the hometown of Moammar Gadhafi, Libya's longtime leader until he was ousted and killed in October 2011 in a revolution. Since that time, Islamist extremist groups have become increasingly active in the coastal city. The Red Cross has had a permanent presence in Libya since 2011, working with the Libyan Red Crescent to administer first aid and help those injured or displaced by violence. READ: Islamist militants strike back against Benghazi renegades CNN's Jomana Karadsheh contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/world/africa/egypt-presidential-election/index.html	world	Egypt declares el-Sisi winner of presidential election - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 01:57:06 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Former Egyptian military chief Abdel Fattah el-Sisi was officially declared the winner of the country's presidential election on Tuesday, with election officials saying he won more than 96% of last month's vote. His sole opponent, Hamdeen Sabahy, received 3.9% of the vote, the country's election commission said. Sabahy conceded defeat last week. Several thousand people in Cairo's Tahrir Square celebrated Tuesday's announcement. Fireworks erupted overhead as vendors sold Egyptian flags and balloons marked with Sisi's face. Military and security personnel watched from the edges as people danced and sang. U.S. President Barack Obama plans to speak with el-Sisi in the coming days, the White House said Wednesday. The United States looks forward to working with el-Sisi "to advance our strategic partnership and the many interests shared by the United States and Egypt," the White House press secretary said in a statement.  The election was called amid months of political turbulence that saw Mohamed Morsy -- the country's first democratically elected president after the ouster of longtime leader Hosni Mubarak -- removed from power in a July military coup. El-Sisi, who was army chief at the time, stepped down from his military post this year to run for president. Though Sabahy conceded defeat, he didn't embrace the process. Allegations were made that his campaign representatives were attacked and detained, and that el-Sisi's representatives were allowed inside polling stations, Egypt's state-run Ahram Online news agency reported last week. "We cannot give any credibility or ratification to the announced numbers of turnout or results," Sabahy said. "The announced results are an insult to the intelligence of the Egyptians." The White House said while it is pleased that international observers were allowed to participate in the election, "we also share concerns raised by observation groups about the restrictive political environment in which this election took place." "As Egypt looks toward parliamentary elections later this year, we urge the government to consider the recommendations of the observer groups on ways to improve the administration of future elections," the White House said. Can Egypt's presidential candidates transform economic fortunes? CNN's Reza Sayah and Salma Abdelaziz and journalist Sarah Sirgany contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/living/60s-family-irpt/index.html	living	Was it really a simpler time? Your '60s family photos, revealed - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 09:05:08 EDT 2014	Experience "The Sixties" on CNN on Thursdays at 9p ET/PT. Discover your '60s personality by taking the CNN Sixties quiz. (CNN) -- The good ole days: When life was more innocent, families were happier and children behaved better. Or maybe not. Oh, how things have changed, and haven't really. After sifting through dozens of 1960s family portraits that CNN readers shared, here's what we deduced about the decade and how we lived. Send in your own photos and observations here, and tell us if you agree. 1. Families were larger. Kathi Cordsen grew up with five siblings, Lauri Williams was one of eight adopted children and David Gregory was the oldest of 14. In 1960, the average family had 3.67 children, compared to 3.12 in 2013. "There were four Catholic families of 10 or more children within two blocks," said Gregory, who lived in Canton, Illinois. "My mother's three siblings (all living in Canton) had 27 children total, so the 41 of us never lacked for cousin playmates." 2. But that doesn't mean they were happier. We tend to romanticize the past. But the hilarious 1967 photo of a grumpy teenage Debra Harris next to her "equally perky" parents reminds us that all '60s families weren't as cheerful as the Ozzie and Harriet clan. 3. Matching outfits were popular. From the Butler brothers' identical cowboy getups, and the Jones sisters' matching dresses and pigtails, we wouldn't mind if this adorable trend made a comeback. 4. Kids' clothes were dressier. Just look at the kneesocks and Mary Janes! Is it weird that the children in these photos have better wardrobes than adults today? 5. Nerdy family photos have always existed. And we're hoping they always will. In this priceless 1967 snap, Craig Reigelhaupt is the little guy in the horn-rimmed glasses and tiny red bow tie. 6. They were hipper than they knew. Forget Instagram, these photos are the real deal, with their sepia tones and square format. Chris Brown's family photo is a perfect example. Do you have family photos from the '60s? What do they say about your family? Share your observations in the comments below and submit your photos to CNN iReport.   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/living/childless-women-misperceptions/index.html	living	Women without children: The misperceptions in media and marketing - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 08:57:35 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- Women without children like Patrice Grell Yursik, who just celebrated her 12th wedding anniversary, get the same questions all the time. "I can't even tell you how many cab drivers in Chicago, in New York, in L.A., have asked me, 'So any kids? No kids, why no kids?' It's just the way that people engage with you," said Grell Yursik, 35, of Chicago, creator of the beauty and lifestyle blog Afrobella.com. She and her husband have not decided whether they want to have children. Laurie White, a 43-year-old writer and social media manager, who has referred to herself over the years as "accidentally childless," said people always come up with solutions for what they perceive as her "problem." "Why don't you just parent by yourself? Why don't you adopt? There are so many kids who need homes," White, of Olney, Maryland, said people tell her. "It really discounts whether or not that's something a) that I want to do and b) whether that's something that's really wise for me to do as a single person." Kitty Bradshaw, creator of an online destination covering lifestyle in Los Angeles and New York, said, "More and more guys are saying 'Oh there must be something wrong with you if you are 35 and you've never been married and you've never had kids.' " READ: Are people without kids happier? New studies offer mixed picture  Bradshaw, White and Grell Yursik are not alone by a long shot; 47% of women between ages 15 and 44 don't have children, according to 2010 U.S. Census Bureau data, an increase from 35% in 1976. That's a massive group comprising nearly half the women of childbearing age, and yet this demographic remains misunderstood, poorly portrayed in the media and nearly invisible to Madison Avenue, many women without children say. 'The Otherhood' Best-selling author Melanie Notkin, 45, coined the term "The Otherhood," the title of her newest book, to refer to women like herself who don't have children either by choice or based on life's circumstances. In her case, she experienced what she calls "circumstantial infertility ... the pain and grief over not having children" because she's single. Too often society perceives women like herself as making a choice between having a career and having love, marriage and children, she said. "This implication that we have chosen a career as opposed to falling in love is, as I say in the book, about as preposterous for me as having an elephant as a household pet," Notkin said at a recent panel discussion hosted by DeVries Global, a public relations and social media agency. READ: CNNiReport: I'm coming out: I don't want children  "I have never said no to a man who proposed to me with whom I was madly in love because I had a conference call to take." Pop culture certainly doesn't help, Notkin and other women say. Think about how women without children are often portrayed in television and film. There's the singularly focused career woman (think Peggy Olson on "Mad Men"), the frivolous fashionista waiting for Mr. Right (Carrie Bradshaw on "Sex and the City") or the crazy cat lady, who sits home, with her cats, depressed and lonely. "If you are single with no kids, you're desperate, you're in a house, you're living with your parents, you're overweight or you're not a pretty girl. It's just very negative and in most cases, that's not the case," said Kitty Bradshaw. Now 35, she said she always dreamed of having children but heeded the advice from people who said she had plenty of time to wait. "I also listened to the old saying, 'Don't go looking. It'll come.' So I didn't go looking and it never came," said Bradshaw, who recently moved to Los Angeles to actively look for a husband. READ: I am nobody's mother and never will be  "We are maternal" To gain insight into the hopes, lifestyle habits and spending patterns of mothers and non-mothers, DeVries Global partnered with a survey company to conduct an online survey of 2,000 women across the country, 1,000 moms and 1,000 non-moms between ages 18 and 50. Notkin served as a consultant on the research. Of the women without children, "almost half of them, 46%, actually want to eventually have children, 18% were on the fence and 36% ... said no" they did not want kids, according to Michael De Cicco, senior director of research and analytics at DeVries Global. (Since the survey was conducted online, it may not represent the views of women who are less tech-savvy or don't like answering questions online about such personal issues.) A large majority of the women without children said kids are still a big part of their lives, according to De Cicco, a finding that clashes with another misperception of these women: that they don't like kids. "We are maternal," said Notkin, who is also the founder of Savvy Auntie, which bills itself as the first online community for "cool aunts, great aunts, godmothers and all women who love kids." "We do love the children in our life and the survey showed that 80% of women could still be happy whether or not they had children, and part of it is because we get to exercise our maternal muscle on the children we love." Attention marketers: These women have power What the survey also found is these women are a consumer force that marketers have not yet reckoned with: "Women without kids spend on average 35% more per person per month on groceries than moms," according to the DeVries report. They also "spend on average nearly twice as much as moms on beauty and hair related products," said the report. READ: Does having children make you happier? "I think a lot of the brands that make advertising decisions still very much see the world through kind of a 'Mad Men' lens of womanhood," said Grell Yursik, the married blogger who now has an annual conversation with her husband about whether they'll have children. White, the single social media maven, remembered a hilarious incident at one of the first blogging conferences she attended years ago when she was talking to a representative from a detergent company. "He said something throwaway like, 'Oh, well, for your children,' which is a way they figure out who's in your house and I said, 'Well, I don't have any' and he just basically ended the conversation," said White. Brands that "get it" will be rewarded, said Notkin, pointing to a specific social media campaign she produced in 2010 with Tropicana, in which the retailer wanted to reach women in her "Savvy Auntie" community along with moms. "When I tweeted out that Tropicana was a new sponsor and 'values the roles aunts play in the lives of the children they love,' the immediate 'tongue-in-cheek' reply from my Twitter followers included tweets like: 'I always knew their orange juice tasted better,' " Notkin told me via e-mail. "There is a real opportunity for brands to capture this market by simply acknowledging it. It's a powerful opportunity when done authentically." 'Multi-faceted' and 'multi-fabulous' How will we get to a place where perceptions of women without children -- in society, media and marketing -- shift to better reflect the reality of who these women are and what they want in life? "We are multi-faceted, multi-dimensional, multi-fabulous women," said Grell Yursik. "And there's no reason to pigeonhole us into one box based on what the traditional tropes have been." "I always say I've thrown a lot of baby showers. I have a lot of friends with kids. I don't have my own so people would be smart to invite me to the conversation because I have influence in that area," said White. Attitudes need to shift significantly, but they have come a long way since the '70s, said Sheila Hoffman, 64, who made the decision to live child-free at a time when just about nobody else was doing it. "Just the fact that there are role models around that have made the choice and have lived happy, successful lives" has made a difference, said Hoffman, a married graphic designer in Seattle. "There were no role models. You need to remember I grew up with 'Leave it to Beaver' and 'Ozzie and Harriett,'" she said with a laugh. "Those were the norms." Do you believe there are misperceptions about women without children? Share your thoughts in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/opinion/cevallos-marine-mexico-guns/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Should Marine be in Mexican prison? - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 04:00:40 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Danny Cevallos is a CNN legal analyst, criminal defense attorney and partner at Cevallos & Wong, practicing in Pennsylvania and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Follow him on Twitter @CevallosLaw. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- A Marine Corps reservist says he accidentally drove his truck across the U.S. border into Tijuana, Mexico, where he was arrested and charged with possession of three firearms and ammunition. All of the guns were legally registered in the United States. Surprisingly, however, in Los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, firearm possession is almost completely outlawed. Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi, a decorated Marine who served two tours in Afghanistan, had a shotgun, a handgun and a rifle -- all illegal in Mexico. He also had 400 pieces of ammunition. He is being held on weapons charges in a prison outside a town near Tijuana. I can imagine what some people might be thinking upon hearing this news. Wait -- Mexico has strict gun control laws? And anyone from the Southwest, or anyone who has ever been to Tijuana, might have followed that up with: Wait -- Tijuana has laws? After all, many 19-year-old Americans go to Tijuana specifically because of the border town's legendary, shall we say, "relaxed" legal approach to minimum drinking ages and competitively priced prostitutes. But it's true: Although the Mexican Constitution is similar to the U.S. Constitution in that it guarantees some right to arms, Mexico's statutory ownership and permit laws have essentially regulated this "right" into a theoretical one. That's right, Mexico is actually tough on guns. Well, sort of. The controlling law is Ley Federal de Armas de Fuego y Explosivos (LFAFE), or the Federal Firearms and Explosives Law. (For a terrific translation of the text into English, as well as an academic analysis of Mexican gun laws, check out David Kopel's Mexico's Gun Control Laws: A Model for the United States?) The short version: Tahmooressi, who has been held more than two months, faces some serious penalties for the firearms in his truck. Even possessing ammunition without prior authorization is prohibited in Mexico by federal law, with penalties of up to 30 years in prison. Mexico's message is clear: Firearms? No bueno. The incident has triggered a groundswell of support for the sergeant in the States. This raises an interesting issue, however. If Tahmooressi wasn't such a sympathetic figure, in fact, if he was anything other than a war hero, many of us might be asking different questions. Questions such as: Who accidentally drives into Mexico with a truck full of firearms? Because if you strip away the good character, the remaining facts are not so good for Tahmooressi, especially from a criminal defense perspective. A Mexican prosecutor could focus on the basic facts: First, Tahmooressi drove his car across the border into Mexico; second, with firearms and ammunition in his truck. In Mexico, that's a clearly defined crime. On the defense side, it's been widely reported how easy it is to accidentally drive into Mexico at the San Ysidro border crossing. This could help negate his intent. Then there's the issue of Tahmooressi's war-related conditions, which may have contributed to his unfortunate choice of highway ramps. Tahmooressi suffered a severe concussion when a homemade bomb seriously damaged his vehicle in Afghanistan. His mother has said he suffers from "directional dysfunctionality," which means he frequently gets lost, as well as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and hypervigilance -- conditions acquired during, and because of his service. And more to his credit, this Marine did make law-abiding decisions: His firearms were lawfully registered in the U.S., and he immediately called 911 from his cell phone for guidance when he'd realized his mistake. This country has rallied around Tahmooressi because he's exactly the kind of figure America rallies around: a good person caught in a bad situation. But what if this happened to someone else? What if this were just a trust-fund frat boy on spring break, who took a wrong turn in his parents' Volvo with an AK-47 in the passenger seat? Would there be the same outpouring of sympathy, if other facts remained the same? Apply the same facts to the fictional spring-breaker above, or one of the Jackass guys, or -- dare I say it -- Justin Bieber. Do you think most of America would be so mobilized? Whether we admit it or not, the level of popular support is often driven by the character of the person involved, and not the underlying facts. If "The Biebs" had made this wrong turn, we'd be saying good riddance -- and we wouldn't care what his mental health status was at all. Don't get me wrong: If I were president, I'd have already sent in Blackhawk helicopters to extract Tahmooressi -- but mercifully for the U.S., I'm not the President. He even attempted a prison escape. Of course, attorneys are ethically forbidden to counsel a crime like a prison escape, but I'm pretty sure we can silently root for oneespecially when it's in a foreign jurisdiction. Mexico should be equally praised and criticized for its gun control legislation. In theory, as written, the statute attempts to restrict gun ownership to only the most responsible owners, or the most necessary purposes. In practice, however, we all know Mexico is hardly a gun-free, crime-free utopia. Tahmooressi is a responsible gun owner whose ownership did not comply with Mexican law. Now, his freedom depends on three factors, unrelated to the facts: First, the Mexican government can choose not to prosecute. Prosecutors in the States have discretion to withdraw prosecution in the interest of justice. I hope their Mexican counterparts have similar interests: to secure justice rather than victory. Second, U.S. political pressure may help to secure his release. But if Tahmooressi benefits from either of these, it will be because of his good character and not the underlying facts. The underlying facts here are bad for this defendant. Of course, the third option is a safe escape from a Mexican jail ... but I didn't actually recommend that. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOp. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/opinion/cassel-bergdahl-deal-justified/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Was the deal to free Bowe Bergdahl justified? - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 03:22:23 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Douglass Cassel is a Notre Dame presidential fellow and professor of law at the University of Notre Dame. He has filed briefs in the U.S. Supreme Court on behalf of the rights of prisoners at the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and accountability for human rights violations under the Alien Tort Claims Act. He served for three years as a lieutenant in the Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely his. (CNN) -- Last weekend's release and the now imminent homecoming of U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, held prisoner by the Taliban or its allies for nearly five years, are cause for celebration. Bergdahl was the only U.S. soldier being held in the Afghan war. The U.S. military does not abandon its own. Bergdahl's release is nonetheless controversial because of the price paid for it: our release of five former Taliban leaders from Guantanamo to Qatar, where, we are told, they will be monitored and barred from leaving that small Gulf Emirate for one year. There is no denying that the release of Taliban murderers was a stiff price to pay. Letting them go (albeit after a dozen years of incarceration at Guantanamo) was necessary, the administration says, because otherwise Sgt. Bergdahl's life was in danger. If Washington, knowing of an imminent threat to his life, had chosen simply to let one of our soldiers die, how would the American public react? Granted, the objections to this prisoner swap are not trivial. On balance, though, the administration made the right call. One objection is that the released Taliban prisoners, who have killed before, are likely to kill again, once they return to Afghanistan in one year (assuming they do not slip away from Qatar even sooner). That is possible -- but not a certainty. Both the Afghan and U.S. governments have been trying to encourage peace negotiations with the Taliban. Admittedly, a peace deal faces long odds. Still, there is a degree of speculation as to whether the Taliban prisoners -- after long years in Guantanamo away from their comrades -- will necessarily return to their old ways. In contrast, we are told -- on what classified basis we do not yet know -- that Bergdahl's life was in imminent danger, if the White House and Pentagon had refused to make the swap. And even if Bergdahl had survived, how many more years of incommunicado imprisonment would he have had to endure? With U.S. forces in Afghanistan set to wind down to only 10,000 by the end of 2014, and to leave the country altogether by the end of 2016, U.S. leverage to secure his release was steadily diminishing. Another objection is that the U.S., as a matter of policy, should never negotiate with terrorists. In general that is a sound policy. But the Taliban are not garden variety terrorists. They are an armed force with which the U.S. has been engaged in armed conflict for over a decade. Bergdahl was not a hostage held by ordinary terrorists. He was a soldier captured in war. The U.S. can make deals to secure the return of prisoners without relinquishing our general policy of not negotiating with terrorists. A further objection is that this deal will encourage the Taliban to capture more American soldiers. But the Taliban need no incentives to try to capture U.S. service members. Any chance they get, they will take -- regardless of how the U.S. dealt with the Bergdahl release. Finally, some Republicans in Congress object that the deal was illegal, because the administration is required by statute to give Congress 30 days notice before transferring prisoners from Guantanamo, but failed to do so. The administration counters that there was no time for delay without risking Bergdahl's life, and that in these circumstances, the President's constitutional powers as commander in chief entitled him to override the statute. Although the point is debatable as a matter of law, in my view the administration wins the argument. Aside from the prisoner swap for Bergdahl, there remains a larger question: Is the continued detention of 149 prisoners at Guantanamo (following the release of the five Taliban) in the national security interest of the United States? Sixty or so are Yemenis who have long been cleared for release, because they are deemed not to pose a threat to the U.S. The administration keeps them in Guantanamo only because of unrest in Yemen. Other prisoners are detained indefinitely, with no prospect for trial or release. Still other prisoners, who face criminal charges, are or will be tried by military commissions that fall short of minimum international standards of fair trial. Both as symbol and in substance, Guantanamo thus remains a gaping wound in U.S. credibility. When we criticize Russia or China for violating international law, each has a ready retort: The U.S. violates international law at Guantanamo. Even our allies see us as hypocrites. At a time when our "hard power" is in decline, in both absolute terms (a shrinking military) and relative terms (versus mounting Chinese power), Guantanamo undermines American "soft power" -- when we need it more than ever. Guantanamo has too long been treated as a domestic political football. It is past time to recognize that the price of continuing this game into overtime is too high. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/us/bob-bergdahl-profile/index.html	us	Bob Bergdahl journeyed deep into Afghan books, language to save son - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 08:59:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Bob Bergdahl was formally introduced to America in the White House Rose Garden beside the President, he was startling to see and hear at first: He was wearing a long beard and even speaking Pashto. The transformation of the former UPS delivery man was five years in the making in the mountain valleys of Idaho, sparked when his son, Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, was captured by the Taliban in Afghanistan in June 2009. In the half-decade that he and wife crusaded for their son's release -- finally won this past weekend -- Bergdahl journeyed deep into the meaning of his son's captivity and war itself, according to media accounts. He immersed himself in books about Afghanistan and its Pashto language, to speak to his son's captors if only from afar. When it was over, he emerged as someone apparently transformed by his odyssey to save his son. "I am your father, Bowe. To the people of Afghanistan, the same," Bergdahl said during the Rose Garden announcement of his son's release. His immersion into the Afghan mindset, however, hasn't gone unquestioned. His Twitter account posted a message expressing his intent to help free prisoners at Guantanamo Bay. Bowe Bergdahl's release was secured after the Obama administration traded five terrorism detainees from Guantanamo in exchange for the U.S. soldier, which Republican leaders and others have criticized as negotiating with terrorists. Does Bergdahl swap set precedent? The tweet on May 28 was subsequently deleted. A military spokesman for the family, Col. Timothy Marsano, told CNN that the Bergdahls had no comment on the tweet and would not confirm or deny its authenticity. CNN has no way of independently confirming the authenticity of the tweet. Back in Hailey, Idaho, where the Bergdahls raised and home-schooled their son and daughter, residents strongly support the family and dismiss the anger over the prisoner exchange. The community has long maintained a yellow-ribbon vigil for the return of Bowe Bergdahl. "I think that people need to take a little bit more time to stop and listen and understand the situation before they make snap judgments," said Minna Casser, 55, a caregiver and artist who has been living in Hailey for 15 years. In the past five years, Bob and Jani Bergdahl have been holding rallies, maintaining a website and lobbying congressmen in a campaign to win their son's freedom. In May 2011, almost two years into his son's captivity, Bergdahl made a YouTube appeal to his son's captors. The father had a long beard, but he didn't speak much Pashto at that time: "We ask that your nation diligently help our son be freed from his captivity. I pray this video may be shown to our only son," he told Pakistani armed forces, apparently because his son's captors were moving him between Afghanistan and Pakistan at that time. "We've been quiet in public, but we haven't been quiet behind the scenes," As recently as last January, Bob Bergdahl also spoke Pashto at a rally in Hailey. "May the peace of God and blessings of God be upon you," he said in Pashto. "After 12 years, let there be peace. Can we push this forward and make this happen?" Bergdahl then spoke in English, delivering a message to his only son that revealed a mutual trial of the spirit. "Bowe, my son, if you can hear me ... you are part of the peace process. You are part of ending the Afghan war. Have faith. Do good works. Tell the truth, and have the patience that can only come from God. We are being tested." Bergdahl, 54, who retired from UPS after working there for 28 years, recently built a campsite with a tent and a wood-burning stove in the same birch forest in the mountains where his son used to play as a child, according to a recent videotaped interview with the U.K.'s Guardian newspaper. To reach the campsite, Bergdahl hiked in snowshoes with a backpack through the wintry summits. He's hoping his son will use the isolation of the camp to recover. "I wake up each morning, and my first thought is, my son is still a prisoner of war in Afghanistan, and I need to do something about that," the father told the Guardian. Back at home, the family kitchen features a small shrine to their son, with a framed photograph of him in uniform along with a U.S. flag. Elsewhere in the home are stacks of books including one entitled "Pashto" and another called "War Is a Lie," according to the Guardian. "I'm trying to learn a little Pashto so that I can speak to people," he said in the newspaper interview. "I'm trying to write or read the language. I probably spend four hours a day reading on the region and the history." Stefanie O'Neill, a Bergdahl family friend, said those are the thoughts of a father fighting for his son's life. "Wouldn't you try and connect with the people that had your child? Bob and Jani did everything possible they could to ensure Bowe's safety. And if Bob was trying to connect with them, it was to keep his son safe, I'm sure," O'Neill said. The family home sits high in the crystalline air of the Rocky Mountains down the road from the resort town of Sun Valley, a famous tourist and celebrity getaway for skiing and fresh air. Outside the house, Bergdahl rides a quarterhorse in the snow without a saddle. "I don't think anybody can relate to the prisoners in Guantanamo more -- I don't think -- than our family because it's the same thing. My son is a prisoner of war, and wars end with reconciliation and negotiations with the enemy, and prisoners of war should be part of that dialogue, and I insist that it will be," Bergdahl told the UK news outlet. Bowe Bergdahl was officially classified by the military as missing/captured. Bob Bergdahl taught his son ethics from the classics. He and his wife moved to Idaho from California and built a two-bedroom house on mountain valley farmland near Hailey, the family told Rolling Stone magazine in 2012. There, the couple raised Bowe and daughter Sky. The parents are devout Calvinists who home-schooled their children six hours a day and taught them the theologies of Thomas Aquinas and St. Augustine. "Ethics and morality would be constant verbiage in our conversations," Bergdahl told the magazine. "Bowe was definitely instilled with truth. He was very philosophical about perceiving ethics." His son's upbringing in mountainous Hailey may have helped the young man during captivity, Bergdahl told Time magazine in an interview two years ago. "Idaho is so much like Afghanistan," Bergdahl told the magazine, citing the mountains of both. "The similarities will help him. We hope that will be what sustains him." It apparently did, though the captivity has taken a toll on the son, the father said. His son, too, became immersed in the language of his captors and now has trouble speaking English. The son's recovery will certainly take a long time, the father said. Bowe Bergdahl's return to the United States -- and reunion with his family and hometown -- have not been announced by U.S. officials. Opinion: Bergdahl still has a hard road home CNN's Ed Lavandera and Jason Morris contributed to this report from Idaho. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/showbiz/casey-kasem-hospitalized/index.html	entertainment	Casey Kasem hospitalized as feud between wife, daughter continues - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 08:18:14 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The bitter family dispute over the care of renowned radio announcer Casey Kasem got more bizarre Sunday. Before paramedics wheeled Kasem to an ambulance, his wife, Jean, threw a hunk of meat at one of his daughters who had come to accompany her father to the hospital, officials said Monday. It is the latest incident in the feud between Kerri Kasem and Jean Kasem, who has been married to the former host of "American Top 40" and "Casey's Top 40" since 1980, over who should decide his medical care. Casey Kasem has Lewy body disease, the most common type of progressive dementia after Alzheimer's. He is in stable condition at a medical facility in Washington, according to a representative for Kerri Kasem. She claims her father's health has worsened since the last time she saw him weeks ago at a nursing home in Santa Monica, California. She had won a California court order in May to become the temporary conservator for her ailing father, but he went missing for a few days from a nursing home there before being found in Washington state with his wife, Kerri's stepmother. On Friday morning, a Kitsap County, Washington, judge granted Kerri Kasem permission to take her father to a doctor. Kerri Kasem went to the home Sunday, her representative, Danny Deraney, said. She stayed on the street while paramedics went to get the 82-year-old icon, Deraney said. As she waited, Jean Kasem approached and hurled something at Kerri Kasem while referring to King David of the Bible, saying she was throwing the meat at "the dogs." A video provided to CNN by Deraney showed part of the incident, and in it, Jean Kasem walks down a driveway, throws underhanded a block of meat, which skips on the pavement toward the person holding the camera. Kerri Kasem said it was a pound of hamburger. A spokesman for the Kitsap County Sheriff's Office said no deputies saw the meat thrown but several witnesses described it. There was no assault complaint, Deputy Scott Wilson said. CNN attempted to contact Jean Kasem's attorney, Craig Marcus, on Monday but didn't get an immediate response. Wilson said the Kasems are due in Kitsap County court again on Friday. Three weeks ago, a California court awarded Kerri Kasem temporary durable power of attorney and health care directive and has ordered Jean Kasem to surrender Casey Kasem's passport to the daughter. The California judge also ordered that Casey Kasem can't travel anywhere without a court order until a doctor clears him. One of Casey Kasem's other daughters, Julie Kasem, and her husband, Dr. Jamil Aboulhosn, have said her father signed papers in 2007 giving them the power of attorney over his heath care in the event he was unable to make his own health decisions. But Julie and Kerri Kasem and their brother, Mike Kasem, have contended since last year that Jean Kasem has prevented the three siblings from visiting their father. Jean Kasem said in court papers last year that the three children "single-handedly and irreparably shattered" the couple's lives by deploying public demonstrations and attacks in the media, according to CNN affiliate KCBS. Kerri Kasem's temporary conservatorship over her father is in effect until June 20, when another California court hearing is scheduled on whether to make the conservatorship permanent. Casey Kasem, who was also the voice of Shaggy in the cartoon "Scooby-Doo" and an announcer for NBC, retired in 2009. All-time great DJs CNN's Jane Caffrey and Michael Martinez contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/europe/d-day-70th-anniversary-preparations/index.html	world	D-Day veteran: I don't want them to be forgotten - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 11:48:52 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It was the beginning of the end of World War II: Wave upon wave of allied troops storming the coast of northern France to liberate the country and its people from Nazi occupation, in the largest seaborne invasion in history. Braving everything from heavy seas to machine gun fire and grenades, soldiers clambered ashore at beaches codenamed Utah, Omaha, Gold, Juno and Sword and began to fight their way inland. Thousands died in the attempt; today their bodies fill military cemeteries along the Normandy coast. Some of their former comrades make the trip back to France every year. "I don't want them to be forgotten ... it's too early," explained retired Staff Sergeant Jacques Jones, laying a wreath at the American cemetery. But with each year that passes, fewer and fewer survive to keep the memory of what happened alive. For Harold Bradley, there is an added reason why landing at Sword Beach is something he could never forget: It was his 21st birthday. "I landed in Normandy on my 21st," he says. "I remember saying to a friend -- it's my birthday today Rob, and he said: 'It seems a pretty good day to have it.' But of course once you are on those boats you aren't thinking about birthdays." A gunner with Britain's Royal Artillery, Bradley was there to support troops who had captured the beach three days earlier. "We were going to join the division that landed on D-Day which required more support from guns, and that was our job. We landed on the 9th, we were there in support of the infantry division; within about an hour of landing we were firing guns." Bradley lost some of his closest friends in the fighting that followed. Just weeks before the end of the conflict, he was captured by the Germans -- his family were told he was missing in action, and presumed dead -- before being freed by American soldiers. "I have often wondered since, many times, how my mother must have felt having a telegram from the Foreign Office saying [I was] missing, believed killed, and then a voice comes on the phone and says 'Hello Mum,'" he says. "It must have been stunning." Seventy years on from D-Day, preparations have been in full swing for months: New flags and banners have gone up, the grass at the cemeteries has been neatly trimmed, and everything has been given a spit and polish ahead of the anniversary visit by world leaders including Queen Elizabeth II and U.S. President Barack Obama. Michel Joyeux from Normandy was planning to plant red, white and blue flowers in front of his house when CNN visited -- his flags were already flying proudly. "With me they are up every year," he said. "It is an honor for me to decorate and commemorate all the soldiers who died." The cathedral at Bayeux has a new bronze bell to mark the anniversary. Local priest, Father Laurent Berthout, said it celebrated "peace and reconciliation between the different countries, and between France and Germany, and the friendship between the United States and France and England." But Berthout said not all of those in Normandy have completely positive memories of the liberation -- some can't forget how destructive it was. Charles Moncouteau, 87, told CNN his village never joins in the commemorations, because it was almost completely destroyed by the fighting. This year, French President Francois Hollande has ordered that attention be focused on the civilian losses as well as the military ones; it is estimated that, during the Normandy campaign alone, 20,000 French civilians lost their lives. Three-quarters of Caen, where Hollande and more than a dozen heads of state and government will gather this week, was destroyed by the fighting when German troops held out there in the months following D-Day, prompting the Allies to lay siege to the city. Scars left by the conflict remain, 70 years later. But many of today's residents of Normandy are simply grateful for the actions of those soldiers -- in some cases, decades before they were even born. "My gratitude is huge," says law student Paul Guillotte. "I am blessing every day the heroes who came to rescue us." On June 6, others will say thank you in their own way. American jazz pianist Bill Carrothers will perform alongside more than 100 teenagers from schools across the U.S. and France, offering a musical tribute to those who fought in World War II. "It's a tiny and fairly insignificant way of giving back to a lot of veterans who went before us and died, fighting for an idea, a very important idea that I think some of the modern wars somewhat lost," he explained. "The landings in Normandy were an important moral event. It wasn't a war for oil, prestige or power. It was for an idea -- maybe the last time in our history that I can think of that it has been the case." For decades since the war's end, Harold Bradley has declined to take part in events commemorating D-Day. "It isn't me," he explains. "It's like wearing medals, you know. I don't want to walk up and down with medals on saying: 'look at me.'" But this year, on the 70th anniversary of the decisive battle, Bradley will be in Normandy to pay tribute to those who fell, alongside other elderly veterans and world leaders. "I am extremely fortunate to be as fit as well as I am, but obviously it can't last forever -- [I'm] 91 on June 9," he says. "In so much as it could well be the last time, I shall go." As one of the last remaining soldiers who can recall those bloody days in June 1944, he hopes that such battles remain firmly in the past. "It would be a dream to say stop wars but at least reduce them, because at the end of a war what have you got? No-one's won anything. Millions dead and you still have the same problem." What to know about D-Day D-Day Landings - myth and reality Eisenhower's 'soul-racking' D-Day decision  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/justice/donald-sterling-lawsuit/index.html	crime	Former Sterling employee claims sexual, racial harassment - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 11:40:33 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A woman who says she twice worked for L.A. Clippers co-owner Donald Sterling sued him this week, alleging that he sexually harassed her and made her uncomfortable with racist remarks -- and that he once fired her after she objected. Maiko Maya King's lawsuit, filed Monday in Los Angeles County Superior Court, alleges she and Sterling were in a romantic relationship from 2005 to 2011, and that she "worked for him and his foundation" before her irritation at what she claims were his racially offensive remarks split them apart. King alleges Sterling made racist comments about her former husband, who is black, and about the couple's children. "Why would you bring black people into the world?" Sterling allegedly said, according to the lawsuit. The suit also alleges Sterling said: "I want to take you out of the black world and put you into the white world." Referring to King's former relationship, Sterling would tell her, "You ran away with a black boy," including once at a table full of people at a restaurant, according to the lawsuit. In addition, the lawsuit quotes Sterling as allegedly telling King that she had "moved to the ghetto" and that "Black people do not take care of their children. All they do is sit at home and smoke dope." An attorney for Sterling, Bobby Samini, told CNN that King's claim was "baseless and ridiculous." "She was never employed by Donald Sterling," he said. "Her claim was obviously prompted by opportunistic motives." Gloria Allred, King's attorney, told CNN Tuesday that her client has "quite a bit of evidence. We have voice mails. We have texts." Allred said King returned to work for Sterling after having a "problematic relationship" with him because she knew his girlfriend was V. Stiviano, the woman who released his now-infamous audio recording. "She knew V. Stiviano was his girlfriend and she felt then she wouldn't have to have sex with him and she came back into his employ as his caretaker, " Allred said. The lawsuit claims that after King re-established contact with Sterling in late 2013, he hired her as his "personal assistant/caretaker" with an agreement to pay her $10,000 a month. However, the suit says, he "dangled money only if she would have sex with him," and she "refused to perform many of the acts." "She was introduced as his caretaker. And she was promised wages and she was not paid those wages. So she is entitled to be paid for her work, and that's what this lawsuit is all about," Allred said. Sterling fired her after she protested against the alleged sexual harassment and racist remarks he allegedly made, the suit says. The lawsuit said King was at Sterling's home one day when he was on the phone with former NBA star Earvin "Magic" Johnson and she heard him make "derogatory comments of a sexual and racial nature" about Johnson. Sterling's public troubles began in April when TMZ posted a recording in which he was heard making racist comments. Sterling's inflammatory remarks to Stiviano spawned outrage among NBA fans, players and executives. Chief among the latter was NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, who banned Sterling from the league, fined him $2.5 million and pushed through a charge to terminate all of his ownership rights in the franchise. Sterling, an attorney and billionaire real estate mogul, is now fighting to keep his co-ownership of the NBA franchise. In the recording, Sterling argues with Stiviano about how she posted a photo of herself with Johnson to Instagram. "In your lousy f**ing Instagrams, you don't have to have yourself with -- walking with black people," Sterling says. "If it's white people, it's OK?" the woman responds. "If it was Larry Bird, would it make a difference?" Bird was also an NBA star who played with the Boston Celtics and a storied rival of Johnson, who played for the Los Angeles Lakers. Sterling's camp, in turn, has filed a lawsuit, claiming that the NBA move to terminate his ownership "is unconstitutional, in breach of contract, in restraint of trade, in breach of fiduciary duties and ... is malicious and oppressive." The lawsuit seeks more than $1 billion from the NBA for its decision to ban him for life and force him to sell the franchise. It comes amid fresh questions about the 80-year-old's mental state, raising the issue of how much control he has or should have with the Clipppers. Sterling's estranged wife, Shelly, last week agreed to sell the Clippers to former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer for $2 billion. Official: Suspect in alleged Stiviano assault surrenders Sterling sues NBA for $1 billion as questions over his mental state loom CNN's Ray Sanchez contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/justice/wisconsin-girl-stabbed/index.html	crime	12-year-old Wisconsin girl stabbed 19 times; friends arrested - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 03:04:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- They thought they had something to prove to someone they found on a ghoulish website, police say. So, two girls lured a third girl into a wooded area in Waukesha, Wisconsin, over the weekend and stabbed her 19 times, according to authorities. The suspects allegedly left the victim to crawl to her own rescue. The three girls, all 12 years old, were friends. A bicyclist found the wounded girl alive Saturday, lying on a sidewalk in Waukesha, Police Chief Russell Jack said. She was in stable condition at a hospital Monday. The girls were trying to impress a certain "Slenderman," according to a criminal complaint. One of the girls encountered the name on a website known as Creepypasta Wiki. Slenderman is a fictional character and Internet meme that often appears in horror stories, videos and images. One of the suspects told police that Slenderman is the site's supposed leader, and to climb into his realm, a user must kill someone. On Tuesday morning, a lengthy statement was posted on www.creepypasta.com. The statement expressed condolences for everyone involved and stressed that the site does not condone or encourage violence in any way. But it also noted that "it's hard to justify pinning blame on an entire genre of writing." Creepypasta is a play on the term "copypasta," which is derived from the keyboard action "copy-paste." Creepypasta is horror fiction written with the Web in mind and, often, comes in a style that makes it look like a news or true crime story. Read: Who is Slenderman? Numerous plans of attack Two girls, Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier, were arrested hours after the victim was discovered Saturday, the complaint says. They were being held on preliminary charges of attempted first-degree intentional homicide. Geyser and Weier are being charged as adults and appeared in court Monday. Bail was set for each in the amount of $500,000, Waukesha County District Attorney Brad Schimel said. Anthony Cotton, Geyser's attorney, told CNN on Tuesday that he's spoken briefly with her. She is housed at a juvenile facility for females, he said, and the girl's family is in "shock." Geyser has not had a mental evaluation yet, but her lawyer expects her to be given one soon. Attempts to contact an attorney for Weier were unsuccessful Monday and Tuesday. The suspects attended the same middle school as the victim and had a sleepover at the home of one of the suspects Friday night, Jack said. "Both suspects had a fascination with a fictitious character that often posted" to websites dealing with stories about death and horror, the police chief told reporters at a news conference. According to the criminal complaint, the suspects had been planning the attack since February. They first thought to kill the victim by placing duct tape over her mouth while she was sleeping and stabbing her in the neck, the complaint says. Next, the plan was to kill her in a park bathroom where there was a floor drain that could make cleanup easier, it continued. But, finally, the girls decided to carry out the attack in the park while playing a game of hide-and-seek, the complaint says. It states: "As they left for the park ... (the victim) was walking in front of them and Geyser lifted up the left side of her white jacket and displayed the knife tucked in her waistband. Weier stated she gave Geyser a look with wide eyes and, when asked what that meant Weier stated, 'I thought, dear god, this was really happening.' " When can kids understand reality vs. fantasy? 'One millimeter away' from death The victim was stabbed near her heart, and she was "one millimeter away from certain death," the complaint says. When the bicyclist found her, the girl pleaded, "Please help me. I've been stabbed." She was in extreme pain and could only answer yes or no questions, the complaint says. Authorities searched for the two other girls, and a sheriff's officer found them walking near Interstate 94, Jack said. He declined to say whether the suspects had blood on their clothes, but added: "There was evidence that was readily apparent when the two were taken into custody." That evidence included a large kitchen knife inside a purse that Geyser identified as one of her mother's old purses, according to the complaint. Mary Ellen O'Toole, a former FBI profiler, described the case as "very unusual -- not just because is involves young females," she said, "but the brutality of it." Police: Girl, 14, stabs sister 40 times because she felt unappreciated School stabbing suspect: 'I have more people to kill' Children on their way to get ice cream stabbed in elevator CNN's Doug Gross, Shawn Nottingham, Ben Brumfield, Janet DiGiacomo and Kara Devlin contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/justice/mcstay-murder-mystery/index.html	crime	Who killed the McStay family? - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 08:46:52 EDT 2014	For the latest on the McStay murders, watch "Buried Secrets: Who Murdered the McStay Family?" Tuesday, July 1, at 9 p.m. ET on CNN. Victorville, California (CNN) -- Four years ago, Patrick McStay lost everything he loved. His son, Joseph, his daughter-in-law, Summer, and their two little boys -- Gianni, 4, and Joseph Jr., 3 -- vanished. "From Day One, I just had this gut feeling that I was never going to see them again," he said, swallowing tears. "I just knew. Something told me, I wasn't going to see them again." The McStays disappeared from their home in suburban San Diego in February 2010. There were no signs of a struggle. No apparent plan to flee. Nearly four years later, the mother, father and two boys were found slain in the Mojave Desert -- their bodies buried in shallow graves. How did they get there? Who killed them? From the beginning, the case has baffled investigators, but they aren't giving up. Said John McMahon, sheriff of San Bernardino County, in an exclusive interview with CNN: "It is certainly my hope that at some point in the future, we'll be able to solve this, and bring the suspect or suspects to justice." McStay's brother to killers: 'You guys are cowards' The disappearance February 4, 2010, began as an ordinary day in the McStay home in Fallbrook, a community of about 30,000 people about 18 miles from the Pacific Coast and 50 miles north of San Diego. Patrick McStay spoke on the phone with his son, who ran a custom water feature business, and was scheduled to have a lunch meeting around noon. Summer McStay spent the day caring for the kids and overseeing the family's home renovation. They were looking forward to their youngest son's birthday party that weekend. But that night, the family of four suddenly left the house -- the doors locked, the car gone. Inexplicably, their two beloved dogs were left outside without food or water. "(It's) as if you took off really fast but were coming back," said Susan Blake, Joseph McStay's mother, who is divorced from Patrick McStay. "Your thoughts are going wild. 'Well, why would they be missing?' Something's not right here," she said. The investigation Early evidence pointed investigators south. Four days after the McStays disappeared, detectives say the family's white Isuzu Trooper was parked and subsequently towed from a parking lot just steps from the Mexican border. And the car wasn't the only clue. After they found the Isuzu, investigators discovered someone at the McStay home had done a computer search for getting passports to Mexico. They also found surveillance video showing a family of four matching the McStays' description crossing on foot into Mexico on February 8. "I just thought, well, maybe they took off," said Joseph's mother. But his father wasn't buying it. "I said right up front, the first time I saw it (the surveillance footage), it wasn't them," said Patrick McStay, adding that Summer was afraid of Mexico. "Would Summer take her two children in there? Heck, no," he said. Missed opportunities Patrick McStay worried detectives were chasing dead-end clues. "I could have probably hired some Boy Scouts and done a better job," he said. He reached out to Tim Miller, founder of the nonprofit search-and-rescue organization Texas Equusearch, which, in turn, contacted freelance investigative journalist Steph Watts for help. One point that raised questions for Watts was the last known call from Joseph McStay's cell phone. The call was to a friend, Chase Merritt. It came in about 40 minutes after a neighbor's security camera captured the family's Isuzu pulling out of the McStay's cul-de-sac. Merritt didn't answer. Among those questions, Watts said, were, "Did Joseph actually make that call from his phone, or did somebody else take Joseph's phone and make that call? Was he trying to call for help?" The journalist also noted the impact of the delay in reporting the family missing to law enforcement. Joseph's brother contacted authorities 11 days after the McStays disappeared. He says he waited because he didn't want to overreact, and thought the family might just be on vacation. "The first few hours are so critical, the first few minutes ... The beginning of someone trying to commit a crime against you, that's the only chance you have to get out," Watts said. 2013: Who were the McStays? The bodies The call the family feared finally came in November 2013, from an off-roading motorcyclist in the Mojave Desert. More than 150 miles from the U.S.-Mexico border, and some 100 miles north of the McStay home, the biker found what looked to be part of a human skull in a remote area of Victorville, California. Authorities investigated and found four skeletons in two shallow graves. With the help of dental records, they determined the bodies belonged to the McStays. Once considered a missing persons case, the investigation moved to homicide. It also switched jurisdictions -- passing from the San Diego County Sheriff's Department to the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department. Jan Caldwell, with the San Diego department, defended her office's handling of the case. "This is an incredibly thorough investigation," she said, her hand atop a thick stacks of files. "Thumbing through it, I can see phone records, I see photographs, I see communications. "And to have done all of this -- to have compiled this kind of a massive file and still not know the answer -- enormously frustrating," Caldwell said last year, soon after the remains were discovered. The San Diego County Sheriff's Department is no longer commenting on the case. It refers all questions to San Bernardino, which declines to get into specifics, citing the ongoing investigation. Summer's mother, brother and sister also declined to comment to CNN. The mystery Detectives still have not named any suspects or persons of interest. "There was certainly evidence found in and around the grave sites, but at this point we're not prepared to talk about what evidence we did locate," said McMahon, the San Bernardino sheriff. Watts said the only way the case will be cracked now is if someone talks. "There was more than one person involved in this case because not one person dragged four people out to the desert and buried them single-handedly," he said. "As the pieces begin to come together, it's looking to me like it was extremely orchestrated. So we have to ask ourselves, why?" Like Watts, Patrick McStay believes the killer, or killers, has to be someone who hated his family for a reason -- but that reason is unclear. So many theories. So many questions. So few answers. "It's like a play. The first act has just ended. We've got three more acts to go," he said. This story was reported by CNN's Randi Kaye and Jessica Small in Victorville and Melissa Dunst Lipman in New York. It was written by Dana Ford in Atlanta.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/us/va-changes/index.html	us	Acting VA leader: Changes start with getting veterans appointments - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 07:01:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Acting Veterans Affairs Secretary Sloan Gibson, visiting the Phoenix VA facility where a report found 1,700 veterans were left off waiting lists, said Thursday that changes there signal the beginning of needed reforms. The VA has contacted the veterans cited in an internal report and has begun to schedule appointments, Gibson said. "Getting this right is our top priority, and taking care of the veterans here in Phoenix is a good place to start," he said. The Veterans Affairs scandal has mushroomed since CNN first reported last November on allegations of alarming shortcomings within the VA medical care system that potentially had deadly consequences in dozens of cases. The most disturbing and striking problems emerged in Arizona last month, with sources revealing to CNN details of a secret waiting list for treatment. According to the sources, at least 40 veterans died while waiting for care at the Phoenix medical center. The VA has acknowledged 23 deaths nationwide due to delayed care. Gibson said the results of a nationwide audit and numbers from patient wait data will be released on Monday and will show how systemic problems are at the agency. The VA is looking to contract with non-VA medical-care providers in the Phoenix area to assist with primary care, he said, and is sending three mobile units. Gibson said that the VA will hire temporary workers to ensure veterans get the care they deserve. He also announced the department has suspended bonuses for senior executives for the financial year. "Additionally, we will remove the 14-day scheduling goal from employee performance contracts to eliminate any incentives to engage in inappropriate behavior," he said. In some cases, wait times were manipulated to meet employee performance goals needed for bonuses, two VA reports revealed. Gibson replaced Eric Shinseki, who resigned last week. Were bonuses tied to VA wait times? Here's what we know The announced changes come the same day Senate negotiators reached a deal -- which will have to be approved by the full Senate -- on a bill that would approve the building of new VA facilities, bring about the hiring of more doctors and nurses and allow veterans in rural areas to go to non-VA doctors. It should go to the Senate floor next week, according to aides. Senate reaches deal on VA bill  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/us/high-school-principal-comes-out/index.html	us	Principal comes out at school's gay pride day - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 04:31:39 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Pete Cahall gripped a microphone with his left hand, a few pages of handwritten notes in his right. Both hands trembled nervously throughout the speech he struggled to deliver on Wednesday before the student body at Woodrow Wilson High School in Washington, D.C. Odd, since Cahall is the school's principal, and has spoken in front of these very same students countless times before. But he had never given a speech like this before. In fact, he had never spoken publicly about what he was going to say. "I am a proud gay man that just happens to be the principal of Wilson High School," he said to thunderous applause. The announcement came at the school's annual gay pride celebration. Mayor Vincent Gray and openly gay City Council member David Catania were in attendance. "I never made this declaration before because I did not want my kids to think differently of me or to not respect me," Cahall told the students. "I have been in the shadows, but I am liberated today." Later, the principal spoke of the moment. "What I kept thinking was, how can I be the principal of Wilson and oversee a pride day and tell kids to be themselves and be who you are and then not do that? It's hypocritical," Cahall told CNN affiliate WJLA. "That was so unexpected," senior Tao Marwell told WJLA. "I had no idea. I have so much more respect for him now." Gray, whom Cahall thanked in his speech for his "care, leadership and support," had some strong words for Westboro Baptist Church after the controversial congregation threatened to protest Woodrow Wilson for hosting a pride day. "In my best biblical reference, my words to the people of Westboro in Kansas is they can go straight to hell," said the mayor, according to WJLA. Cahall said that he was inspired to come out by openly gay professional athletes Jason Collins and Michael Sam. He also said that a recent birthday might have had something to do with it. "I just turned 50 a couple weeks ago, and I'm tired of hiding." State-by-state: A frenzied few months on the same-sex marriage front 'Game of Thrones' actor comes out as gay Actress Ellen Page: "I am gay" CNN's Justin Lear contributed to this article  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/justice/wisconsin-stabbing/index.html	crime	Stabbed Wisconsin girl improving, family says - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 11:35:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A 12-year-old Wisconsin girl who police say was stabbed in an attack by two other 12-year-olds "is a fighter and is improving each and every day," her family said Thursday in a news release. "As parents of this little girl, we are overwhelmed with the amount of love and support we've received from our family, friends and community," the family said in a statement obtained by CNN affiliate WTMJ. Authorities said one girl held the victim down while another stabbed her 19 times in a Waukesha park Saturday morning, allegedly so that the alleged attackers could impress a fictitious, ghoulish Internet character called Slenderman. Who is Slenderman? The victim was left to crawl to her rescue, and she was taken to a hospital after a passing bicyclist found her, police said. The suspects, Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier, were arrested hours after the victim was discovered, according to a criminal complaint. They have been charged with attempted first-degree intentional homicide, according to court documents filed Monday. The two are being charged as adults, and bail is set at $500,000 for each, Waukesha County District Attorney Brad Schimel said. The victim is in stable condition at a southeastern Wisconsin hospital, the release said. The family asked for "homemade hearts of paper, fabric and felted wool that are purple in color and infused with prayers, love and light." "The hearts will blanket the walls of the girl's room to remind her that the power of love is greater than all else," the release said. Hearts can be sent to: Hearts for Healing, P.O. Box 407, Waukesha, WI, 53187-0407. When can kids understand reality vs. fantasy? Bicyclist who found stabbed Wisconsin girl: 'Who did that to you?' Opinion: When the bogeyman is a little girl CNN's Ashley Fantz, Jason Hanna, Shawn Nottingham and Kara Devlin contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/us/california-navy-jet-crash/index.html	us	Navy jet crashes into Pacific while approaching carrier - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 08:55:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A U.S. Navy fighter jet crashed into the water off Southern California while approaching an aircraft carrier Wednesday night, the Navy said. The pilot of the F/A-18E Super Hornet ejected, was recovered and is in stable condition aboard the USS Carl Vinson, the Navy said Thursday. The aviator is expected to make a full recovery. The crash happened hours after a separate military plane went down in California: the nonfatal crash of one of the Marines' AV-8B Harriers into a neighborhood in Imperial. In Wednesday night's crash in the Pacific, the Super Hornet was on approach to the Carl Vinson when it hit the water about 10 p.m. PT, the Navy said. The jet hasn't been recovered. The cause of the crash will be investigated, the Navy said. All air operations aboard the Carl Vinson were suspended after the crash, but they resumed midday Thursday and diverted aircraft returned. The carrier had been taking part in an exercise in preparation for a deployment, the Navy said. CNN's Jason Hanna and John Branch contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/us/blue-angels-chauvinism/index.html	us	Blue Angels descended into porn, homophobia and harassment - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 06:57:25 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- One of the nation's most prestigious teams of flying aerobats dive-bombed into the depths of sexual harassment and stayed there for at least a year, a new Navy study says. Under the command of Capt. Gregory McWherter, members of the Blue Angels openly passed around pornography and flew with it in their cockpits during airshows. They cursed gays and spread dirty talk about women. Their chauvinistic behavior turned the squadron into a hostile workplace, a Navy investigation into the shenanigans said. And McWherter not only tolerated them; he set examples of bad behavior and animated those under his command. McWherter was reprimanded after a disciplinary proceeding this week and was previously relieved of his duties as an executive officer. The 63-page document reads like a cross between the burlesque B movies "Hot Shot" and "Animal House," as it describes how the squad's Ready Room took on the atmosphere of a college fraternity. The Blue Angels are the friendly face of the U.S. Navy and Marines and put on aerial stunt shows before live audiences across the country most every week. The scandal has sullied their reputation and that of the military branches they represent, Navy investigators said. Giant genital graffiti At one point during McWherter's stint, an oversized penis painted in the blue and gold colors of the Blue Angels adorned the roof of an airplane hangar. The image was so large that it could be seen by satellites and appeared on Google Maps images. A member of the squadron painted over the graffiti, and the satellite map image has since disappeared. McWherter has not always had a reputation for raunch. He led the Blue Angels twice, and the first time around, he snuffed out such risque stunts as a matter of maintaining professional order, the investigation said. He completed a "successful and unmarred tour as the Commanding Officer of the Blue Angels from 2008 to 2010," the Navy said. Once that tour was over, he handed over the reins, but his successor committed a safety violation in May 2011. The Angels had to cancel a show and go through a safety stand-down. The commander stepped down, and McWherter returned. He received a "hero's welcome" and decided he'd do something to cheer the Angels up: throw out some protocol and crank up camaraderie. Tolerating chauvinism McWherter was not the first to introduce lewd practices to the squadron, but he no longer clamped down as much and sometimes participated. Pornography had made its way into the squadron around the time the captain's first command ended, the investigation said. "Both male and female crew chiefs cut out and placed the pornography in the cockpits," it said. During the investigation, the practice was cited by some witnesses as "motivational." It was seen as a way of building trust among team members. Most of the pictures were depictions of naked women. Crew members who objected could complain and opt out, but some felt under pressure not to do so, the review said. Eventually, tensions over the pictures rose, and McWherter asked two female team members for their opinion, the investigation said. They told him they would feel more comfortable if the photos used were of women in bikinis and not nudes. McWherter complied. But eventually, he received an anonymous letter complaining about that practice, too, and he canned it -- but reportedly not without complaining to team members about someone having sent the letter. Online porn and scorn But porn crept into more than just the cockpits and the Ready Room. The group set up a site on the online service GroupMe for scheduling purposes, and profanity and porn dotted the posts. McWherter saw them and joined in. "His initial post after joining the forum was "f*** you," the investigation said. When pornographic images didn't show up in the feed for a while, the captain called for members to post more of them. And he joined in raucous commenting on the lewd images. A Facebook photo of a female enlisted member of the squadron in a bikini turned up in the Ready Room, and McWherter did not object to it. Juvenile to hostile When investigators showed officers who had served during the captain's first stint as commanding officer examples of the homophobic humor on maps, raunchy jokes and pornography that became common during his second stint, they were shocked. "These officers unanimously indicated that such material would not have been tolerated during their time under Captain McWherter at the Blue Angels," the investigation said. In November 2012, the captain's command ended; he moved on, and his successor inherited a cleanup job. The Navy set up awareness training from various equal opportunity programs to rid the Blue Angels of the smut. In 2014, a service member filed a complaint against McWherter for his lax handling of the harassing atmosphere during his command. Navy investigators concluded that the former commander had allowed what may have seemed like juvenile behavior descend into a "toxic" atmosphere. Ex-Blue Angels commander reassigned during sexual harassment inquiry  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/studentnews/sn-curriculum-fri/index.html	us	CNN Student News - June 6, 2014 - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:27:11 EDT 2014	(CNN Student News) -- June 6, 2014 A look back, a look ahead, and a look at stories making headlines today are all part of this June 6 edition of CNN Student News. Subjects covered include D-Day and a General Motors investigation. We'll also recap some of the biggest news events of the school year. This is the last edition of CNN Student News for the 2013-2014 school year. We look forward to seeing you in mid-August! On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program.  Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). End of Year Newsquiz: The following questions relate to events that were covered this school year on CNN Student News. Write your answers in the space provided. 1. What former president of South Africa and anti-apartheid leader passed away in December? 2. What organization oversees most college sports in the U.S.? 3. In what city and country were the 2014 Winter Olympics held? 4. Janet Yellen was confirmed as the first woman to chair what U.S. government body? 5. What building, at a height of 1,776 feet, is now the tallest in the U.S.? 6. What is the nickname for the Affordable Care Act, an extensively debated U.S. health care law? 7. What country saw clashes between pro-Russian and pro-European groups in its capital, Kiev? 8. What war-torn country's largest city is Aleppo? 9. With what world leader did President Obama meet in Vatican City? 10. What is the name of the deadly hemorrhagic fever that broke out in the West African nation of Guinea? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/studentnews/sn-curriculum-thu/index.html	us	CNN Student News - June 5, 2014 - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 06:37:07 EDT 2014	(CNN Student News) -- June 5, 2014 Our penultimate program of the 2013-2014 school year includes reports on a controversial prisoner exchange, the damage caused by baseball-size hail, and a poll on whether the American dream is still alive. And with a nod to Coleridge, we'll look at one facility's plans to turn water, water everywhere into many drops to drink. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day:  What questions might you want to ask about the results of a poll discussed in a news program? Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show: 1. propaganda 2. "the American Dream" 3. desalination Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program? 1. According to the video, who was released in exchange for U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl? What is the Taliban? What does a new Taliban video show about the release of Bergdahl? How has the Taliban characterized the prisoner exchange? Who has been critical of the exchange? How has the Obama administration responded to this criticism? 2. According to the report: When have prisoner exchanges been conducted in the past? What were the circumstances behind some of these exchanges? How is this latest prisoner exchange different? 3. How long has it been since the Great Recession ended? According to the report: Is it still having an impact? Explain. What is "the American Dream"? According to participants in a recent CNN Money poll: Is the American Dream attainable? Who is the most pessimistic? What do participants think about the likelihood that young Americans will be better off than their parents? Why are some experts critical of the poll's findings? 4. What percentage of the Earth is covered with water? What is desalination? What are the challenges to conducting desalination on a large scale? Where is the largest desalination plant in the Western Hemisphere being constructed? What is the approximate cost of this plant? How many customers could benefit from this plant? What is brine? What happens to the brine that is removed from the water? How do company officials at the Carlsbad plant say its energy use will differ from the amount of energy typically used at other plants? What do critics say about this plant? Discussion Questions: 1. What might be some reasons for publicizing video of a prisoner release? 2. How would you define "the American Dream"? In your opinion, is the American Dream attainable? State your rationale. What are your expectations for your financial future? Why? 3. Has your community ever experienced drought conditions? If so, how did they impact daily life? How did the community deal with the water shortage? If not, what does your community do to assure that there is an ample water supply? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/studentnews/sn-curriculum-wed/index.html	us	CNN Student News - June 4, 2014 - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 06:57:35 EDT 2014	(CNN Student News ) -- June 4, 2014 On the 25th anniversary of a crackdown in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, CNN Student News explains why many people in China won't publicly discuss the event. We also look into news events from the Middle East and Europe, and we explore the potential pros and cons of a proposed hike in the federal minimum wage. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day:  Describe some powerful photographs that have come to represent historic events. Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show: 1. Tiananmen Square 2. minimum wage 3. immune system Fast Facts:  How well were you listening to today's program? 1. Who is the current president of Syria? What is the expected outcome of elections being held there? What does the Syrian government say about these elections? How has the U.S. responded? According to the video, what is the purpose of these elections? 2. What kind of government does China have? What happened in Tiananmen Square in Beijing, China on June 4, 1989? According to the report, why are some questions about June 4 left unanswered? Where did the democracy discussions start? What happens when the CNN reporter asks people there if June 4 means anything to them? How does one recent graduate answer that question? What does she think people in China prefer to focus on instead? 3. What country did President Obama visit yesterday? What did he promise that country's president? Why has he asked Congress for $1 billion? With whom has the U.S. been at odds regarding the crisis in Ukraine? Why have some been critical of the president's foreign policy? What does the president hope this trip will help to accomplish? 4. What is the current federal minimum wage? How much does President Obama want it to be? According to the Congressional Budget Office, what are some of the potential positive and negative effects of this kind of raise in the minimum wage? What U.S. city just set the highest minimum wage? How much is it? Why are some of the city's business leaders concerned about this? 5. According to Dr. Sanjay Gupta: How much of an impact can being lonely have on your health? How does loneliness register in the brain? How can the simple act of being social impact one's immune system? What can saying "hello" do for both the receiver and the giver of that greeting? Discussion Questions: 1. How might government control over media impact the flow of information to citizens? How might citizens' rights be affected when their access to information is limited? 2. Who might favor raising the minimum wage? Why? Who might be opposed? Why? What potential impact might raising the minimum wage have on workers, businesses and consumers? Where do you stand on the issue of raising the minimum wage? State your rationale. 3. Do you think there is a mind/body connection when it comes to one's health? Explain. Do you think that other emotions like happiness might have an effect on physical health? Explain. CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/politics/primary-wrap/index.html	politics	Mississippi GOP primary heads for runoff - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 01:10:10 EDT 2014	Jackson, Mississippi (CNN) -- With 100% of precincts reporting results, CNN can report that the Mississippi Republican Senate primary is headed for a June 24 runoff. Sen. Thad Cochran and Chris McDaniel will battle again after both candidates fell short of the 50% threshold needed to avoid another contest. The race is a high-profile tea party vs. establishment showdown. For tea party supporters, it's perhaps their best chance to claim victory after facing a string of defeats this year. Tuesday marked the biggest single day of primary voting in 2014, with contests in eight states. In Iowa, the winner of that high-profile GOP Senate primary had rare support from both sides of the battle between conservatives and the establishment. If Republicans can flip the Hawkeye State and five other Democratic-held seats, they will regain control of the Senate. And California used its new "jungle" primary system for the first time in a gubernatorial race. That's where the top two finishers advance to the November election, regardless of party affiliation. With Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown the overwhelming favorite, the race was for second place, and a moderate Republican edged out a tea party-backed conservative state lawmaker. Top Takeaways from Tuesday's primaries Mississippi At 76, Cochran is the second-oldest Senate incumbent running for re-election. McDaniel, a state senator, ran on a platform of change, saying Cochran, who has served in Congress for four decades, has been in Washington long enough. "We don't have six more years of the status quo," he recently told CNN. "I am not going to Washington, D.C., to be a member of the cocktail circuit or to make backroom deals. I'm going up there to fight and defend the Constitution." Cochran and McDaniel were separated by fewer than 1,400 votes with McDaniel slightly ahead, 49.5% to 49%, according to numbers compiled by The Associated Press. A third Republican candidate in the primary race, Thomas Carey, grabbed 1.5% of the vote. So what happens next? The two candidates have a little under three weeks before they go head to head again. Runoffs usually have lower turnout and tend to favor challengers. Money will be key as both dig deeper into their campaign war chests and rely on outside help from independent groups. McDaniel's campaign was already asking for more cash Wednesday. "I'm going to be brutally honest with you: our campaign is pretty low on money and there's no way we can win if conservatives from around Mississippi and America don't stand up and make sure we have the resources we need to win," he said in an email blast. FreedomWorks, a national tea party group that backed McDaniel, pledged to "double down" on its efforts to make sure he wins. Another conservative group, Club for Growth, even called on Cochran to drop out, but vowed to "vigorously pursue this race" in support of McDaniel no matter what. Cochran supporters also say they're ready for another round. Henry Barbour, who runs the pro-Cochran PAC Mississippi Conservatives, told CNN's Dana Bash that they're "going to get up and rethink" their message. "Really organize from the ground up," he added. Barbour said "complacency" among Cochran voters "hurt us" and he thinks "they got outshouted." His group dished out six figures to support Cochran, who was also backed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which represents the interests of business. The chamber put out a statement in support of Cochran on Wednesday, but declined to specify if it will go up with another ad buy. Another leading outside group that tends to support establishment candidates, American Crossroads, said it would stay out of any runoff. Stuart Stevens, a Cochran adviser and former adviser to Mitt Romney, told Bash that three weeks allows more time to scrutinize McDaniel's record and ask tough questions. The winner will face off against former Rep. Travis Childers, who CNN projects will be the Democratic nominee, in November. Nasty Senate race digs deeper in the mud Iowa State Sen. Joni Ernst didn't have to take sides in the battle between grass-roots conservatives and the Republican establishment: She had the backing of both, and she easily came out on top in a crowded primary race. Ernst, a lieutenant colonel in the Iowa National Guard who grabbed national attention by touting her hog castrating skills in a campaign commercial, had the support of some top names and groups among both the tea party movement and the mainstream GOP. At her victory party Tuesday night, Ernst acknowledged and thanked her GOP competitors. "It is going to take all of us pulling together to unite this party and win in November," she said. The race was originally a free-for-all between four major GOP candidates, but in the closing weeks of the campaign, Ernst pulled ahead of her rivals. The big question going into primary day was whether she would top 35%. If no candidate passed that threshold, the nomination would have been decided a week later by delegates at the Iowa GOP convention. But in the end, Ernst won in a landslide. Ernst will face off against Democratic Rep. Bruce Braley, who had no opposition for his party's nomination. The winner of November's general election will succeed longtime Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin, who is retiring at the end of the year. Republicans believe they have a good shot at flipping Harkin's seat. Big-name Republicans from both the establishment and conservative wings of the party, like Mitt Romney, Marco Rubio and Sarah Palin, joined Ernst on the trail. She also grabbed support from the Chamber of Commerce and the National Rifle Association as well groups like the Senate Conservatives Fund, which often backs like-minded candidates who launch primary challenges against incumbent Republican senators. Midterms: What's at stake California gubernatorial race Brown and Republican Neel Kashkari finished in first and second place, respectively, and will advance to the general election. Brown's first-place finish was never in doubt. Kashkari and fellow Republican Tim Donnelly were vying for the second spot. Some GOP strategists said they were concerned that if Donnelly, a conservative with tea party backing, had won, it could have hurt Republican candidates come November in down-ballot races in a state where the general election electorate is much more moderate. Kashkari, a moderate, was a Treasury Department official under President George W. Bush. One time anti-war protester Cindy Sheehan was also on the ballot, the nominee of the Peace and Freedom Party, a socialist party. She grabbed about 1% of the vote. Sheehan became the face of the anti-Iraq war movement in 2005 when she protested for weeks outside Bush's ranch in Crawford, Texas, after her son Casey was killed in combat. 2014 midterms: What's at stake  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/politics/june-3-primaries-takeaways/index.html	politics	Top takeaways from Tuesday's primaries - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 09:19:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The tea party movement is an important step closer to doing something it's done only three times before: Oust an incumbent Republican senator in a GOP primary. Tea party backed state Sen. Chris McDaniel forced incumbent Sen. Thad Cochran into a runoff in Mississippi's Republican primary. The challenge could give the 5-year-old grass-roots conservative movement - which so far this year has suffered a string of high profile primary defeats - a much needed injection of energy. In Tuesday's other marquee showdown, a candidate who enjoyed both tea party and mainstream Republican backing won big in the Iowa GOP Senate primary, thanks in part to some clever ads that went viral. And in California, which now uses an open primary system where the top two finishers advance to the November election regardless of party affiliation, a moderate Republican edged out a tea party-backed conservative for the honor of facing off in the midterms against heavily favored Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown. Here are the top takeaways from Tuesday's primaries: 1. Round 2: Tea party vs. establishment in Mississippi: While candidates with tea party support have struggled to claim major victories this year, McDaniel's ability to force Cochran, 76, into a runoff indicates the grass-roots conservative movement is still rumbling -- and powerful enough to nearly take out a six-term incumbent senator. Since the tea party started gaining steam in 2009, the far right has defeated only three incumbent senators in GOP primaries: Bob Bennett of Utah (2010), Lisa Murkowski of Alaska (2010) and Dick Lugar of Indiana (2012). Murkowski, however, later won the general race with a write-in campaign. McDaniel, 42, and his supporters say Cochran, who's running for a seventh term, has been in Washington far too long. He especially irked grassroots conservatives when he said earlier this year, "the tea party is something I don't really know a lot about." But it's unclear who has more momentum going forward. McDaniel certainly rallied his supporters Tuesday night, vowing to claim victory in the June 24 runoff. "I promise you this, whether it's tomorrow or whether it's three weeks from tonight, we will stand victorious in this race," he said. But Cochran supporters also say they're ready for another round. Henry Barbour, who runs the pro-Cochran PAC Mississippi Conservatives, told CNN's Dana Bash that they're "going to get up and rethink" their message. "Really organize from the ground up," he added. Barbour said "complacency" among Cochran voters "hurt us," and he thinks "they got outshouted." Stuart Stevens, a Cochran adviser and former adviser to Mitt Romney, told Bash that three weeks allows more time to scrutinize McDaniel's record and ask tough questions. But supporters of McDaniel may point to the 2012 Senate primary in Texas, where a political newcomer known as Ted Cruz came from behind to push the establishment candidate, Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, into a runoff. The extra time gave Cruz a longer window to build his profile. That summer, he rose to national fame and attracted support from high-profile figures like Sarah Palin. Two months after the primary, Cruz defeated Dewhurst in the runoff. McDaniel won't have nearly as much time to solidify a victory, but being so close to a win may only make his supporters want it that much more. No matter who has more momentum, the runoff certainly seems poised to become another supercharged fight between the establishment and tea party Republicans. Race gets ugly in the Mississippi mud 2. Hog wild in Iowa: The free-for-all that was the Iowa Republican Senate primary turned into a landslide victory for Joni Ernst over three other major GOP candidates. Ernst went from a little-known state senator to the front-runner who enjoyed support from major mainstream GOP groups and anti-establishment and tea party organizations. She also won endorsements from such high-profile Republicans as Palin, Romney and Marco Rubio. The big question going into Tuesday's primary was whether Ernst would crack the 35% threshold and avoid a runoff. If not, the nomination would have been decided a week later by some 2,000 delegates at the Iowa GOP convention. The final public opinion poll going into the primary had Ernst at 36%. When the primary results were in, Ernst grabbed 56% of the vote. So how did she do it? Some provocative ads definitely helped. "I'm Joni Ernst. I grew up castrating hogs on an Iowa farm, so when I get to Washington, I'll know how to cut pork," Ernst said in the first TV commercial of her campaign. That spot, which first aired in late March, not only made Ernst more recognizable in the Hawkeye State, but also across the nation. A second commercial showed Ernst, a lieutenant colonel in the Iowa National Guard, riding up to a gun range on a motorcycle. "With little name ID and even less money to introduce herself to Iowans earlier this year, her clever ads were undoubtedly the spark that fueled tonight's impressive victory," Iowa Republican consultant Matt Strawn, a former chairman of the state GOP, told CNN on Tuesday night. And Iowa Republican strategist Tim Albrecht, who is supporting Ernst, said "the ads were successful because they were genuine Joni. She has been under-estimated from the beginning, and proved tonight she is a candidate to be reckoned with in November." Ernst joked about her now-famous hog castration commercial in her victory speech, saying "I grew up ... canning food and feeding hogs on our family farm, and yes, some of you may know I did more than just feed the hogs." Ernst hopes to make history in November as the first woman to represent Iowa in Congress. In the midterm elections, she'll face Democratic Rep. Bruce Braley, who was unopposed in his party's primary. The winner of November's general election will succeed longtime Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin, who is retiring at the end of the year. Republicans feel they have a good shot at flipping Harkin's seat, in their drive to retake the Senate. GOP candidate gets mainstream and anti-establishment backing 3. Open primaries have consequences No one questioned whether Democrat Jerry Brown, who's bidding for an unprecedented fourth term as California governor, was the overwhelming favorite in Tuesday's Golden State primary. The big question was whom the incumbent would face off with come November. For the first time in a gubernatorial race, California held an open, or "jungle," primary, where all candidates compete in a single contest and the first and second place finishers, regardless of party affiliation, advance to the general election. Second place went to former Bush administration treasury official Neel Kashkari, who edged out state Rep. Tim Donnelly, a fellow Republican. Kashkari's a moderate who is best known for managing the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), better known as the Wall Street bailouts, during President George W. Bush's last year in office. He's also a supporter of immigration reform, same-sex marriage and abortion rights. The tea party-backed Donnelly is an outspoken supporter of the rights of gun owners and a fierce opponent of a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. Kashkari's victory could make a difference for the party's chances in the general election. Some GOP strategists told CNN they were concerned that if Donnelly won, it would hurt Republican candidates in down-ballot races in a state where the general election electorate is much more moderate than that of the GOP primary. It's also more than fair to say that in a traditional GOP primary, which is dominated by conservatives, Kashkari would have had a much tougher time beating Donnelly. "Everybody's going to study it and find things to love and hate about the open primary system," said CNN chief national correspondent John King. "There are some grass-roots conservatives who think establishment Republicans are looking for every way under the sun to weaken them. They will now point to the open primary system as an example, since their party's gubernatorial nominee in California is a man who not only supported the Wall Street bailouts, but actually administered them," King added. 4. Romney's candidates clean up: Romney has the Midas touch this election season. The 2012 Republican presidential nominee continued his winning streak Tuesday with three of the GOP candidates he endorsed winning their primaries. Romney campaigned with Ernst in Iowa and cut an online ad for the Chamber of Commerce supporting her candidacy. His endorsement adds some establishment GOP backing to the conservative favorite, who also enjoys support from tea party power players like Palin. In California, Romney backed Kashkari, who came in second and now advances to November's general election. Also in California, Romney threw his support behind former state Rep. Tony Strickland, who co-chaired both of his presidential bids, in the state's 25th Congressional District. Strickland came in first in the vote count, which sends him on to the general election. The winner of that contest will go on to succeed retiring GOP Rep. Buck McKeon, chairman of the Armed Services Committee. After failing to nab the White House from President Barack Obama, Romney backed away from the spotlight briefly before jumping back into the political fray, surprising many with his involvement in the 2014 election cycle. So far this election cycle, he's endorsed or donated money to some 20 candidates, many of them GOP establishment favorites who backed Romney in his White House runs. Two weeks ago, two other candidates he had backed scored high-profile primary victories. Romney endorsed and recorded a robocall for Dr. Monica Wehby, a pediatric neurosurgeon who won the GOP Senate primary in Oregon over a more conservative state lawmaker. The same night, eight-term Rep. Mike Simpson of Idaho beat back a serious primary challenge from a tea party-backed candidate. Romney had endorsed Simpson and starred in a television commercial put out by the Chamber of Commerce that backed Simpson. Asked last week about his winning track record when it comes to primary endorsements, Romney told reporters: "I wish I can take credit for that. The candidates take credit for that, and I am sure we will have some successes and some that are not successful." Mississippi GOP primary race too close to call Primary problems: GOP women struggle to come out on top  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/politics/politics-of-carbon/index.html	politics	With carbon limits, Obama creates drama for Democrats - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 03:21:38 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- President Barack Obama's aggressive new proposal to dramatically limit carbon pollution is a policy priority that he hopes will help shape his legacy. But a policy step that Obama considers good for the country and his presidency may be bad for certain Democrats in tight election battles this year. Democrats' flight Some of the toughest fights this campaign season are taking place in red or purple states where jobs and the economy are in a constant tug of war against the environment. They are also the states where Obama's plan to limit carbon emission from power plants will have its greatest impact. Obama's big environmental move: Demanding power plants cut carbon Obama's proposal aims to reduce carbon pollution by 30% by 2030, but the Chamber of Commerce put out a study last week saying it will cost $50 billion and eliminate nearly 225,000 jobs. Republicans are framing it as a job killer and electricity bill hiker, putting some Democrats in a tough position in an uneven economy. "As he seeks to secure his legacy, Obama is finally getting his 'war on coal,'" the Republican National Committee wrote in a statement slamming the proposal. Coal power plants, the greatest polluters, are expected to be the most impacted by the new rules, if they're finalized. Some Democrats from conservative coal-producing states quickly and sharply broke from the President. Kentucky produces the third-most coal in the country but has seen a reduction in coal jobs and production. A high-profile Senate race there has come down to who loves coal more. Democrat Alison Lundergan Grimes, who is running to unseat Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, put out a strong statement opposing Obama's move. "President Obama's new EPA rule is more proof that Washington isn't working for Kentucky," Grimes said in a statement. "When I'm in the U.S. Senate, I will fiercely oppose the President's attack on Kentucky's coal industry because protecting our jobs will be my number one priority." She is also actively attacking the President, running ads worth "six figures" in Kentucky newspapers that say "President Obama and Washington don't get it." Her opposition is aggressive but it didn't stop McConnell for connecting Grimes to the President and fellow Democrats. "Alison Lundergan Grimes was recruited by President Obama, who said he would 'bankrupt' the coal industry, and Harry Reid, who said 'coal makes us sick.' And she is being funded by liberals nationwide who know that a vote for her is a vote to ensure further implementation of their anti-coal agenda in the U.S. Senate," McConnell's spokeswoman Allison Moore said in a statement. In West Virginia, which produces the second most coal, Democratic candidate for Senate Natalie Tennant also opposes the new rules. "I will stand up to President Obama, (EPA Administrator) Gina McCarthy, and anyone else who tries to undermine our coal jobs," Tennant said in a statement. West Virginia Rep. Nick Rahall, who is in a tough race to retain his seat, put out a statement announcing that he is introducing legislation to block Obama's proposal. The new effort could also play out in Louisiana, where Sen. Mary Landrieu, chairman of the Senate Energy Committee, is in a tough reelection campaign. Landrieu has been a major defender of fossil fuel-based energy industries as oil, natural gas and some coal are integral to her state's economy. She straddled the issue carefully on Monday by saying that carbon emissions should be reduced but with the input of Congress and not through the Environmental Protection Agency. And giving an olive branch to the powerful energy industry, she also praised it for reducing carbon. She did not praise the President. "Congress should set the terms, goals and time frame. Greater use of natural gas and stronger efficiency measures adopted by the industry have already helped us reduce carbon emissions to their lowest levels in 20 years," Landrieu said. Her Republican opponent, Rep. Bill Cassidy slammed Landrieu. His spokesperson, John Cummins, said she has done little to stop regulations that "tie down Louisiana's energy economy in an effort to promote a radical climate change agenda." In North Carolina, another red state, Republican Thom Tillis called his opponent, Democratic incumbent Sen. Kay Hagan, "a rubber-stamp for Obama's anti-energy policies." Hagan said in a statement that she would push for changes in the plan, which will be subject to public comment. "I'm talking to business leaders and energy experts in North Carolina about what this proposed rule will mean for our state and our economy. I want to make sure that the proposal does enough to recognize the progress we've made reducing carbon emissions and promoting renewable energy," she said. In Montana, Democratic Sen. John Walsh's statement underscores the difficulty of this issue in conservative states. He issued no position, instead saying he "will be listening to Montanans" to determine if the rule is one they can accept. Democratic Sen. Mark Pryor of Arkansas was also noncommittal. He said he had "concerns" but would wait to hear what the people of his state thought. The issue is likely to come up in races in Pennsylvania, Virginia and Alaska as well. All produce coal but also lean conservative and have constituencies that are turned off by greater government regulation. But Bill Burton, a former Obama spokesman, said division among Democrats is expected, especially in campaign season. "You're going to have instances where Democrats are going to not be perfectly aligned with the President's message, but that doesn't mean the President's policy is not the right one," he said. The Republican Party is taking advantage, launching robocalls connecting candidates to Obama's "radical energy plan" in Virginia, Louisiana, Colorado and Alaska. Obama's fight Before his administration announced the planned change, Obama held a conference call with members of the House and Senate in an attempt to shore up support and enthusiasm, indicating that this would be a political landmine for some Democrats in tough races. But addressing the issue of climate change has been at the forefront of his legislative wish list. Up until now, he hasn't done much, hitting a number of roadblocks along the way. Since failing to pass cap and trade legislation to limit carbon emissions through the Democratic-led Senate in 2010, Obama has struggled with Congress. He has been saddled with a struggling economy and several foreign policy crises, effectively putting climate change on the back burner. Inaction of his own initiative has also limited Obama's influence on the issue. He has repeatedly put off a decision to kill or approve the Keystone XL pipeline, which is still unresolved and has upset everyone with a stake or position on the issue. The appointment of John Podesta as the President's counselor earlier this year to revive a struggling White House was also a signal that Obama was going to try again to address environmental pollution. Podesta, who was chief of staff for former President Bill Clinton, has focused on progressive energy and environmental issues, authoring a book in 2008 that is heavy on the issues. These proposed rules on power plants are being billed as the most aggressive effort to combat pollution and climate change in decades, and Burton says this is a legacy issue for Obama. "Nothing has been done on this scale as it relates to combating climate change and it will absolutely be an important part of the President's legacy," he said. (Burton also does work for the environmental group the League of Conservation Voters). Democrats' plight Democrats who support the proposal will be backed by billionaire Tom Steyer, who has pledged to financially assist nearly a dozen candidates who support climate change proposals. Not among those candidates are Democrats who are opposing Obama's new rule, including Grimes, Landrieu and Pryor. Green billionaire prepares to attack 'anti-science' Republicans Steyer praised the President's initiative and blamed Congress for not addressing the issue. "This Congress has failed in its most basic responsibility to protect the health and welfare of the American people from this grave threat," he said, indicating his support for candidates who will do more to address the issue in the future. And Burton says Republicans will be the ones to suffer politically for being "saddled by the notion that climate denial is salable in 2014." CNN's Ted Barrett, Paul Steinhauser and Deirdre Walsh contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/politics/gm-recall-hearings/index.html	politics	As GM finishes investigation, Congress ramps up - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:32:30 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- General Motor's own investigation may be over, but Congress has just begun. CNN has learned from Republican and Democratic sources that the House Energy and Commerce Committee plans to hold hearings this month on how the automaker allowed fatally flawed ignition switches to remain inside vehicles for years. The Senate won't be far behind. Sen. Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri whose subcommittee is handling the issue, announced Thursday that she, too, would hold a hearing this summer. The push for hearings is one of many signs that even as GM put its internal investigation to rest Thursday, lawmakers have not made up their minds about how the company handled the problem, whether there could be criminal wrongdoing, and what are the company's responsibilities to victims from its mistake. "The conclusion of GM's internal investigation marks an important milestone," wrote House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton in a statement released by his office. Family 'angry' despite GM firings "But our investigation continues as many questions remain for both the company and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration," the Michigan Republican said. Upton praised an investigative report commissioned by GM and produced by former U.S. Attorney Anton Valuka as "thorough," but said that it raised concerns about how the company handled the switch problem. GM admitted in February that its engineers first knew of the ignition switch problem as early as 2004. But it did not recall some 2.6 million affected vehicles until earlier this year. "The initial findings are deeply disturbing, suggesting that communications and management failures ran deep and wide within GM," he wrote. GM estimates that 13 people died as a result of the switch flaw, which made affected cars prone to shutting off while on the road, disabling the airbags, power steering and anti-lock brakes. The delayed recall was caused by the misconduct of about 20 employees and "a pattern of incompetence and neglect" throughout the company, the report said. GM Chief Executive Officer Mary Barra announced that 15 employees had been dismissed and five more were been disciplined following the three-month probe. On the Senate side, McCaskill sent out a statement saying she is withholding judgment until she can read the report more closely. "I'm looking forward to getting a full briefing from Mr. Valukas," she wrote, adding a note of scrutiny. "I won't be letting GM leadership, or federal regulators, escape accountability for these tragedies." The 300-page GM report is at the top of the heap of a much larger pile of paperwork that congressional investigators are sifting through on the issue. The Energy and Commerce Committee says it has received 1 million pages of documents from GM about the ignition switch problem, with some 400,000 pages arriving just in the last week. "GM's internal assessment confirms many of the troubling details our ongoing House investigation is uncovering," wrote Rep. Diane DeGette of Colorado, who is the top Democrat on the House subcommittee tasked with the GM investigation. In a statement, she pointed to some initial conclusions, writing, "siloed responsibilities and a corporate culture that deemphasized safety created an environment that allowed problems to linger, leading to additional accidents and loss of life." DeGette is particularly watching an issue that GM has not resolved yet: compensation for victims. "We also need more details to understand how accident victims may receive compensation from GM as well as what legal rights individuals may have to waive as a condition of payment," she wrote. Barra said the company would create a program to compensate those injured or killed by the defective cars, but she didn't say how large that fund would be. As House and Senate committees prepare for a busy next month, two members of Congress are pushing for something more: a new law. "We need to enact legislation that requires auto manufacturers to submit information on possible defects as soon as they become aware of them," wrote Sen. Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts. He and Connecticut Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal have proposed the "Early Warning System Improvement Act of 2014," which would require carmakers to automatically submit to NHTSA any accident report involving a fatality, and then it would require the agency make those documents public. Both sit on the Senate Commerce Committee, but so far no other senators have signed onto the bill and its future is not clear GM will pay a $35 million fine to safety regulators over the switch debacle and is the subject of a federal criminal probe. GM also faces wrongful death lawsuits from victims' families. CNN's Chris Isidore and Poppy Harlow contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/politics/clinton-book-campaign/index.html	politics	Hard Choices: Is it a book rollout or campaign tune up? - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 12:02:31 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- A few hours before Hillary Clinton addressed an audience of around 6,000 people near Denver, the former secretary of state did what few people looking to sell a book would do: She toured a plastics factory. Clinton aides say the event was tied to her family's foundation -- the Clinton Global Initiative -- and the fact that its annual meeting will be held in Denver later this month. But the optics of the event said something different. After touring the factory and giving short remarks about the power of American business -- "I am convinced that American businesses can compete and win against anybody anywhere if we are at the top of our game," she said -- Clinton stepped off the stage and headed to a rope line of eager factory workers and camera-toting employees. "Let me shake a few more hands," Clinton said, a comment reminiscent of refrains made by Iowa- or New Hampshire-bound politicians. In the last month, these two facts have been evident: Clinton-land wants you to know she has a memoir -- "Hard Choices" -- coming out on June 10 and she has become more open about her presidential ambitions. Clinton discusses Berghdal in book And the two have a lot to do with one another. Instead of surrounding herself with the regular PR flacks and publicists in preparation to sell her book, Clinton has brought on seasoned campaign veterans and political communicators. Sources close to Clinton are talking about "war rooms" and "surrogate operations" instead of book signings. Clinton to take part in CNN town hall as book launches "This is a very well orchestrated roll out that is going to make the book have far more impact and, yes, will add to her sense of candidacy," said David Gergen, a senior political analyst with CNN who has deep connections with the Clintons. "I think what you will see with her over the next year until she makes a firm decision is an occasional set of events like this that will keep her fresh, allow her to say her piece." 'A very professional operation' In addition to helping Clinton, the hypothetical candidate, Gergen said the book rollout will help her staff. "It gives them a sense of what a political campaign feels like," he said. "I don't think she has made her final call yet, but she is clearly laying the groundwork in a way that suggests a very professional operation." Earlier this year, the former senator was also more measured in her remarks and more sheepish when answering questions about 2016. In January, Clinton told an audience in New Orleans that she "wasn't thinking about" running and that she has "tried to get other people not to think about it." In Portland, she shrugged when asked about 2016 and walked off stage to a chorus of laughs. In Miami, she commended the way the question was asked, but failed to actually answer it. Fast-forward to June and Clinton was more openly talking about the worst-kept-secret in Washington: She is thinking about running for president. In an interview with People Magazine that was part of the book rollout, Clinton said she knows she has "a decision to make" on 2016 and that she will "just have to make my own decision about what I think is right for me." In her Colorado speech on Monday -- the one after her campaign style tour of the plastics plant -- Clinton called the presidency "as much a job as it is a mission" and when asked about how difficult it is to run, she remarked that she "luckily" has "a lot of resilience and a lot of stamina." Her rhetoric, too, has started to sound more like a campaign. At the end of the speech in Colorado on Monday, Clinton closed with what sounded like an impassioned plea for support and, if the venue was different, for votes. "Please join me," she said, her voice raising over the roaring crowd, "in making some hard choices for America." Seasoned hands help communicate message With the stepped up rhetoric has come a more robust inner circle of Clinton aides to tightly and systematically trickle out information about the book. Once an operation with just a few press staff and advisers - along with dozens of informal friends and longtime confidants - the Clinton world has added a few seasoned political hands to help communicate Clinton's message around the book. The Clinton team brought on Tommy Vietor, a National Security Council spokesman during Obama's first term, to coordinate and assist in the response to the book and questions about Clinton's record at the State Department. It has also tapped Kiki McLean, a former Clinton senior adviser and veteran of five presidential campaigns, to coordinate the surrogate operation around the book. With the new hires comes what one source called a war room of former diplomats who stand ready to respond to criticism of Clinton's tenure at the State Department. It is safe to say that Clinton's book roll out is one of the first to use phrases like war room and surrogate operation. One of Clinton's closest advisers - Philippe Reines - also briefed a group of Democratic national security experts and communicators last week on the political scrutiny over the Benghazi terror attack and the themes of Clinton's book. The meeting was tightly controlled by Clinton's advisers, who told attendees that there would be no leaking what was discussed in the briefing. Outside groups have also begun to step up their activity around the book. Correct the Record, a pro-Clinton messaging and rapid response organization with deep ties to Clinton, hosted media training for their surrogates in May. Ready for Hillary, a pro-Clinton super PAC that is building grassroots support for the former first lady, announced on Wednesday that they would follow Clinton's book tour in "The Hillary Bus," a mobile venue for the group to sign up supporters and support the pseudo-campaign. The groups that have Hillary's back Leaks and excerpts trickle out As her aides have been planning and preparing, Clinton has been all over the news. She appeared on the View in May - joking that she was "running ... around the park" -- and details about her book have slowly leaked out on a nearly daily basis. The first book excerpts came out in early May, when in honor of Mother's Day Vogue published a passage of Clinton's book that was dedicated to her mother. Then came the book's Author's Note, put out by Simon & Schuster, the book's publisher. Shortly after that, the most highly anticipated chapter of Clinton's book - her recollections and thoughts about Benghazi - was leaked to Politico. The speculation was that Clinton's staff wanted to get the news out of the way early so that it wouldn't shadow the rest of the book. On Thursday, CBS reported that Clinton talks about negotiations for captured soldier Bowe Bergdahl's release and her differences with Obama over arming Syrian rebels in the book, which it said it had gotten a copy of. Along the way, locations for Clinton's book tour were released: New York City, Chicago, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles and San Francisco, to name a few. If all of this seems reminiscent of a campaign, that's because it is. Seasoned staff, effective surrogate operations and coordinated leaks are what can make or break a political campaign. And as is evident with Clinton's stepped up presence and the slow trickle of news about her campaign, Clinton's book tour appears to be as much a memoir roll out as it is political tune up.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/politics/clinton-book/index.html	politics	In book, Clinton raised concern about any Taliban talks for Bergdahl - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 07:02:35 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When she was America's top diplomat, Hillary Clinton acknowledged that negotiating with the Taliban for Bowe Bergdahl's release "would be hard to swallow for many Americans," according to a copy of her upcoming book, "Hard Choices," which was obtained by CBS News. In other foreign policy matters, Clinton writes how she pushed for arming Syrian rebels and also highlights her differences with President Barack Obama on the high-stakes issue. She also said that she regretted her 2002 vote in support of U.S. military action in Iraq. Also in her book, set to hit bookshelves on Tuesday, Clinton dishes on the 2008 campaign against Obama, her feelings about Sarah Palin, and her role in planning her daughter's 2010 wedding. Clinton was skeptical of Bergdahl release  On Bergdahl, the former secretary of state writes that the Taliban's "top concern seemed to be the fate of its fighters being held at Guantanamo Bay and other prisons." "In every discussion about prisoners, we demanded the release of Army Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl, who had been captured in 2009. There would not be any agreement about prisoners without the sergeant coming home," she writes, according to the excerpts. "I acknowledged, as I had many times before, that opening the door to negotiations with the Taliban would be hard to swallow for many Americans after so many years of war," she added. Former officials told CNN earlier this week that Clinton was skeptical of early plans to trade Taliban prisoners, which the Obama administration ultimately did to win Bergdahl's release last week. A measured defense of release On Monday, Clinton was asked whether she would have approved the same deal for five Taliban commanders who had been held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. She did not directly answer the question and offered a measured defense of the Obama administration. "We do have a tradition and I ascribe to it," Clinton said. "We try not to leave any of our soldiers on the field. We try to make sure, insofar as possible, you know, we bring them home." Republicans have been blasting the Obama administration for the prisoner exchange, saying the President set a dangerous precedent by negotiating with terrorists. Clinton left the State Department at the start of last year and is weighing another bid for the White House. 'I still got it wrong' on Iraq On the Iraq War, Clinton writes she wish she hadn't voted to authorize the use of military force in Iraq in 2002. "As the war dragged on, with every letter I sent to a family in New York who had lost a son or daughter, a father or mother, my mistake become (sic) more painful," she writes, according to excerpts posted online by CBS. "I thought I had acted in good faith and made the best decision I could with the information I had. And I wasn't alone in getting it wrong. But I still got it wrong. Plain and simple," she said. It's not the first time she's expressed regret, but it's some of the strongest language she's used on the issue. Clinton's vote became a key topic in her marathon 2008 battle with Obama for the Democratic presidential nomination. The issue, more than the economy, dominated the early parts of the campaign, with Obama criticizing Clinton over the vote. Clinton at first refused to term it a mistake, but later said during the campaign that she would not have voted the same way. Obama, who was a major opponent of the war, never had to vote on whether to authorize military action against Saddam Hussein, as he was not elected to the Senate until 2004. Clinton rarely talks about her vote on Iraq and in the last few months, as she has crisscrossed the country speaking to a wide array of audiences, she has not been asked about it. Conflict in Syria In the book, Clinton describes the bloody three-year long civil war in Syria as "a wicked problem." Clinton goes on to say that's "a term used by planning experts to describe particularly complex challenges that confound standard solutions and approaches. Wicked problems rarely have a right answer; in fact, part of what makes them wicked is that every option appears worse than the next. Increasingly that's how Syria appeared." On whether to arm the Syrian rebels, a contentious issue, Clinton writes that "I returned to Washington reasonably confident that if we decided to begin arming and training moderate Syrian rebels, we could put in place effective coordination with our regional partners." Clinton says there was no good policy action for the United States, and she highlights were she and Obama disagreed on the conflict. "[T]he risks of both action and inaction were high. Both choices would bring unintended consequences. The President's inclination was to stay the present course and not take the significant further step of arming rebels. "No one likes to lose a debate, including me. But this was the President's call and I respected his deliberations and decision. From the beginning of our partnership, he had promised me that would always get a fair hearing. And I always did. In this case, my position didn't prevail," Clinton writes. Although as Clinton backed Obama's Syria policy as secretary of state - including negotiating with the international community on the civil war and criticizing countries like Russia and China, which stood in the way of toppling Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Clinton's writings now show the level with which she split with Obama on arming the rebels. When asked about Syria at events during her time on the paid speaking circuit, Clinton has used identically language to describe the conflict. At an April event in Boston, Clinton told an audience of women leaders that the conflict was a "wicked problem" that "really requires a broad base of knowledge." "It doesn't mean you're not incensed, heartsick, angry," Clinton told the audience at Simmons College. "But then you need to stop and say 'well, what can we do about it? How can we intervene in a way that helps, not hurts?'" Obama, Sarah Palin, and Chelsea Clinton also takes readers into her private meeting with Obama prior to the 2008 Democratic convention, which gave the former rivals an opportunity "to clear the air," Clinton writes. "We stared at each other like two teenagers on an awkward first date, taking a few sips of Chardonnay," she writes of the meeting. "One silver lining of defeat was that I came out of the experience realizing I no longer cared so much about what the critics said about me," she said. Clinton also dishes on the Obama campaign's reaction to then-Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin's selection as Sen. John McCain's running mate, and why she declined to follow the Obama campaign's playbook on slamming the pick. While the campaign issued a "dismissive statement" and urged Clinton to do the same, the then-senator from New York writes that she declined. "I wouldn't. I was not going to attack Palin just for being a woman appealing for support from other women," Clinton writes. "I didn't think it made political sense, and it didn't feel right. So I said no." Hitting a lighter note, Clinton's memoir also discusses the "urgent business" she had to address during her tenure as secretary of state - her daughter's wedding. Flying back from Vietnam in the summer of 2010, Clinton had to shift her attention from rising tensions in the South China Sea to "one of the most important events of my life." "This time it wasn't a high-level summit or a diplomatic crisis. It was my daughter's wedding, a day I had been looking forward to for thirty years," Clinton writes. "I felt lucky that my day job had prepared me for the elaborate diplomacy required to help plan a big wedding." Clinton writes that she was happy to help in any way she could and her responsibilities ranged from "reviewing photographs of flower arrangements" and heading home for tastings and dress selections. As for the former president? "Bill was as emotional as I was, maybe even more so, and I was just glad he made it down the aisle in one piece," Clinton writes. As Chelsea Clinton and her father danced to "The Way You Look Tonight," Hillary Clinton's head swirled with thoughts. "It was one of the happiest and proudest moments of my life," Clinton writes. "Our family had been through a lot together, good times and hard times, and now here we were, celebrating the best of times." CNN's Ashley Killough, Jeremy Diamond, Dan Merica and Paul Steinhauser contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/politics/obama-europe/index.html	politics	Obama warns Russia of further costs if it continues Ukraine meddling - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 04:28:14 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- U.S. President Barack Obama had stern words for his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin over Russia's actions in Ukraine, following a meeting Thursday of G7 leaders in Brussels, Belgium, at which Russia was excluded. Putin "has a chance to get back into a lane of international law," Obama said. But for this to happen, he said, Putin must take steps over the coming weeks that include recognizing Ukraine's new President-elect Petro Poroshenko, stopping the flow of weapons over the border into Ukraine and ceasing Russian support for pro-Russia separatists in Ukraine. "We cannot simply allow drift," Obama said, speaking alongside British Prime Minister David Cameron following bilateral talks. "The mere fact that some of the Russian soldiers have moved back from the border and that Russia is now destabilizing Ukraine through surrogates, rather than overtly and explicitly, does not mean that we can afford three months, or four months, or six months, of continued violence and conflict in eastern Ukraine." If Russia does not de-escalate the situation, the G7 leaders are united and ready to impose further painful economic sanctions, Obama said, with consequences for the Russian people. "Today, in contrast to a growing global economy, a sluggish Russian economy is even weaker because of the choices made by Russia's leadership," he said. Putin was excluded from what was originally planned as a G8 summit in Sochi, Russia, as part of measures to sanction Moscow over its annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region. It's the first time in some 20 years that Russia has not been part of the meeting of world economic powers, Obama said, adding that the step is warranted because Moscow's actions have violated international law and gone against the group's principles. Energy security Putin may not have been at the table, but the summit's message was clearly directed at Russia. In a joint statement issued late Wednesday, the G7 leaders pledged their support for the Ukrainian people and government "in the face of unacceptable interference in Ukraine's sovereign affairs by the Russian Federation." They also warned Moscow that they are ready to intensify targeted economic sanctions and impose new costs on Russia "should events so require." "Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea, and actions to de-stabilize eastern Ukraine are unacceptable and must stop," the statement said. "We urge the Russian Federation to recognize the results of the election, complete the withdrawal of its military forces on the border with Ukraine, stop the flow of weapons and militants across the border and to exercise its influence among armed separatists to lay down their weapons and renounce violence." The G7 leaders also talked about energy security, amid concern over Europe's reliance on Russian natural gas and Moscow's capacity to hold nations hostage to political maneuvering. Obama will next head to Paris, where he will dine with French President Francois Hollande. Putin also will be hosted by the French President on Thursday -- but at a separate dinner. Obama and Putin are among a number of leaders invited to take part in ceremonies in France to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings, which helped change the course of World War II. They are likely to cross paths while both are in France, Obama said, but no formal talks have been announced. If they should speak, Obama added, he will give Putin the same message on Ukraine that he has given him in phone calls over past weeks and in his public statements. There may be one touchy subject at Obama's dinner with Hollande. In his remarks after the G7 meeting, Obama said he had "expressed concerns about continuing significant defense deals with Russia at a time when they've violated basic international law," a reference to a $1.6 billion French deal to sell warships to Moscow. "President Hollande understands my position," Obama said, adding that he in turn recognizes that this is a big deal for France and that it's important for jobs. Nonetheless, Obama said, "I think it would've been preferable to press the pause button. President Hollande so far has not done so." Putin: I won't avoid anyone Although Putin was not invited to the G7 meeting -- which brings together the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy and Japan -- he will have talks on Ukraine with some G7 leaders while they are all in France. Besides Hollande, they include German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Cameron. The D-Day events, which include a spectacular fireworks show Thursday evening along the Normandy coastline and continue into the weekend, may also bring Putin and Ukraine's President-elect Petro Poroshenko face to face. Asked in an interview with French television station TF1 if he would speak with Ukraine's new leader, Putin said he will not "evade" Poroshenko or anyone else. "There will be other guests, and I'm not going to avoid any of them. I will talk with all of them," he said, according to the Kremlin's translation. Poroshenko also did not exclude the possibility, speaking at a news conference Wednesday in Warsaw. "As things stand now, a meeting between me and Putin is not envisaged, but I do not rule out that it could take place in one format or another. So let's talk about it when there are grounds for it," he said. Hollande said that both were invited, although Poroshenko is due to arrive only on Saturday. Putin: No Russian intervention in Ukraine Questioned in the same TF1 interview about Russia's intentions in Ukraine, Putin denied it had sought to annex or destabilize its neighbor. "We never did that," he said. "The Ukrainian government must now sit down and talk with their own people instead of using weapons, tanks, planes and helicopters. They must start the negotiating process." Kiev and the West have said the separatists in Ukraine are coordinated and supplied by Russia. Asked if it was true that Russia had intervened directly, Putin was again vehement in his denial. "There are no armed forces, no Russian 'instructors' in southeastern Ukraine. And there never were any," he said. Putin reiterated his position that Russia respects the Ukrainian people's vote and that Moscow will work with the authorities in Kiev. He also said Russia recognizes Ukraine's sovereignty, while acknowledging that any move by Kiev to join NATO "worries us." This concern was a factor in Russia's annexation of Crimea, Putin told the French broadcaster, following the ouster of President Viktor Yanukovych in what Moscow regards as an illegal coup. Whether Putin and Poroshenko meet personally, Russia will give the new Ukrainian president some official recognition when its ambassador to Ukraine attends Poroshenko's inauguration Saturday. Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich said Thursday, according to state-run RIA Novosti, that Ambassador Mikhail Zurabov will also resume his duties in Kiev. "He is returning to Kiev in order to continue executing his functions," Lukashevich said. Obama vows to stand with Ukraine as he meets President-elect in Poland Opinion: Putin's empire building is not a new Cold War Russia and Ukraine bicker in U.N. meeting CNN's Laura Smith-Spark wrote and reported in London. CNN's Nic Robertson, Greg Botelho, Jim Acosta, Victoria Eastwood, Anna Maja Rappard and Jason Hanna contributed to this report, as did Tim Lister in Donetsk. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/politics/va-scandal-fear-secret/index.html	politics	Inside CNN's investigation: Fear kept the VA scandal a secret - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:04:01 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It began with secret texts to untraceable phones. Meetings took place in seedy bars, dark alleys, gas stations. Actual documents came in packages without notes, without return addresses. You would think the secrets being passed dealt with national security, organized crime or the corruption of high public officials. Nope. The secrets these whistleblowers began telling CNN last summer dealt with the deplorable treatment, or lack of treatment, of American veterans. But why all that secrecy? Employees of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, from all across the country, told us people who speak out face retaliation that could end their careers and permanently harm their family's finances and futures. Today, the Office of Special Counsel announced details from VA whistleblower cases illustrating just how true that fear at the VA has become. The OSC announced it is now looking into allegations of reprisals against 37 employees from the Department of Veterans Affairs. The OSC said it has received the complaints from employees at VA facilities in 19 states. And the complaints run the gamut -- from allegations of retaliation for disclosing improper scheduling practices to retaliation for exposing other threats to patient care. "Receiving candid information about harmful practices from employees will be critical to the VA's efforts to identify problems and find solutions," said Special Counsel Carolyn Lerner. "However, employees will not come forward if they fear retaliation." Lerner's staff recently blocked disciplinary actions against three VA employees after they "disclosed wrongdoing." Lerner's staff says the VA agreed to hold off on the proposed discipline. This will allow the OSC to further investigate the reprisal claims, they said. In the just the past fiscal year, the Office of Special Counsel has fought the punishment of 14 VA employees who had been retaliated against for being critical of the agency. VA doctors scared to talk Last fall, six doctors in Columbia, South Carolina and Augusta, Georgia, came forward to describe to CNN how delayed colonoscopies and endoscopies had led to the death of as many as 20 veterans. None would appear on camera. None would even allow us to quote them. But they begged CNN to tell the story. One doctor would meet only privately in an unpopular, seedy restaurant where he felt certain no one would recognize him. Another doctor only met with us and spoke in a dark, outside location where no one could see him. Another doctor asked us to only speak through a third-person intermediary, providing documents that could not be traced but that could be authenticated to provide us reliable sourcing. Code word: 'Tender Vittles' On background, CNN began conversing with one of the doctors who was so frightened of retaliation that he asked that we text him on a private, untraceable cell phone using coded language. And he asked that any phone calls or e-mails had to start with the words "Tender Vittles," as a way to identify it was "safe" to move ahead with him. Several of the doctors, we were told, had tried to tell administrators of their concerns that patients were being harmed by delays and that some had died or suffered serious injuries. But we were told those doctors were treated harshly by administrators who did not want to hear of the complaints. All the doctors confirmed to us that VA officials had posted warnings in the hospital's halls and elevators that no VA employees could speak with the media or divulge details of what went on inside the hospital. The warnings, the doctors said, included details about laws that could be violated and penalties that employees could face, including financial reparations and even jail time, if they were to speak out publicly, and if the hospital suffered financial losses as a result. In Arizona, more fear and dread Just like the fear in Columbia and Augusta, the source in Phoenix was scared to trust us. We were told to meet at a bar in a strip mall 20 miles outside of downtown. No cameras, no notes and the pounding rock music was so loud, it is doubtful even a hidden microphone would have worked. But it was here we heard the entire story of the secret list in Phoenix. The employee would not allow us to use a name, a position, even a length of service. And we are deliberately leaving out his/her gender. The VA employee remains scared to this day, but everything said inside the seedy bar has proved to be true. A fatal wait: Read the original Phoenix story that started it all The secret list, the destruction and the cover-up through intimidation had been in place for more than a year. It wasn't secret to anyone inside the Phoenix VA. But what this employee was telling us was the other "not-so secret" secret -- about what happened to anyone who spoke against the administration. Sharon Helman, the now ex-director of the Phoenix VA, had a common retort to any naysayer who complained, we were told: "If you don't like it here, let me buy you a Seventh Street bus pass." The bus stop was right under the sixth-floor window of Helman's office. Germaine Claro, a whistleblower who worked under Helman at the Edward Hines Jr. VAMC outside of Chicago, says, "There's a lot of fear, employees are scared to step up when they see things that are negligent ..." Claro says when the news broke in Arizona surrounding secret lists and Helman, no one was surprised. "It's something that is regular business, nobody is shocked that it's in the news, in fact people are relieved that finally people, employees are being heard, that this is a huge problem." We heard the same thing from other whistleblowers as they came forward in Texas and Colorado. Brave doctor goes on the record Most of the credit goes to a whistleblower who wasn't afraid to speak -- and speak forcibly. Dr. Sam Foote admitted to us back in April, in his first on-camera interview, that the only reason he was coming forward so publicly was because he had finally retired, lined up all his government retirement benefits and felt the VA could not retaliate at that stage. He had blown the whistle on the secret list months before, but no one on the inside reacted. A token investigation in December by the Office of the Inspector General did not end the practice of hiding veterans waiting for care. Foote had been labeled a troublemaker by the Phoenix VAMC administrators. And even in the middle of his very public interviews on CNN, a whisper campaign tried to discredit his facts and his honor. Suddenly we were getting calls from inside CNN, from fellow reporters, editors and even anchors who had been contacted telling them our reporting was wrong, the numbers were off, Foote was a troublemaker and not to be trusted. It was always the same: anonymous sources who were trying to discredit Foote and discredit CNN's reporting. Now a report has made it official: The Office of Special Counsel is investigating the great lengths allegedly taken to silence those who would expose a scandal this Department of Veterans Affairs had been successfully hiding for years. Political Ticker: Senate reaches deal on VA bill Were bonuses tied to VA wait times? Here's what we know  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/politics/bergdahl-clinton-comments/index.html	politics	Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl, former officials say - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 03:31:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- While secretary of state, Hillary Clinton was skeptical of early plans to trade Taliban prisoners for American captive Bowe Bergdahl, former officials involved in the process told CNN on Tuesday. Clinton pushed for a much tougher deal than the one with Qatar that secured the Army sergeant's release in exchange for five terror detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, they said. She left office in 2013, but the former officials said they didn't know whether Clinton would have signed off on the swap that culminated this past weekend with Bergdahl climbing aboard a military helicopter. Clinton offered a measured defense of it in an appearance in Denver on Monday. But she but did not answer when asked directly if she would have approved, if still serving as America's top diplomat. "This young man, whatever the circumstances, was an American citizen -- is an American citizen -- was serving in our military," Clinton said. "The idea that you really care for your own citizens and particularly those in uniform, I think is a very noble one." Bergdahl was the only remaining U.S. soldier captured during the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Clinton's thinking on the matter is in play as she considers whether to run for president in 2016. Republicans have taken aim at President Barack Obama's foreign policy, and some conservatives complain that negotiating with the Taliban illustrates weak leadership that could hurt America later on. Obama has defended his decision, saying, "We don't leave men and women in uniform behind." Bergdahl, 28, was captured by the Taliban in Afghanistan in June 2009, and was apparently moved between that country and Pakistan at that time. Clinton did not trust the Haqqani network believed to have held him, the former officials said, and she was skeptical that the trade would lead to peace with the Taliban. She reportedly was also concerned about the ability to enforce any deal. The Haqqani network has ties to al Qaeda and the Taliban, and the United States has designated it a foreign-based terror organization. Republicans and Democrats in Congress had also raised serious concerns more than two years ago with the Obama administration about the possibility of such a swap, and inquired about conditions. Key members from both parties wrote Clinton about their concern, and Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Dianne Feinstein said they received a "comprehensive response" that included "security assurances and a promise of consultation with the Congress." Feinstein and House Speaker John Boehner said this week they could recall no further consultations about the matter with the administration until last Saturday. A framework for negotiations approved by Clinton, however, had tougher measures aiming to ensure the detainees would not return to the battlefield, including releasing the prisoners in two phases. The former officials said that under her plan, the first three would be released and then the remaining two would be freed 60 days later when they released Bergdahl. She also wanted the Qataris to impose stricter restrictions and monitoring once they were in that nation's custody, the officials said. Under the agreement reached with the Obama administration, the five detainees were transferred to Qatar where they can live freely but will be monitored for a year. American troops are due to wrap up combat operations in Afghanistan at year's end with most forces leaving the country. While the deal resulting in Bergdahl's release resulted from indirect talks mediated by Qatar, administration officials led by Marc Grossman, Clinton's special envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, met several times with Taliban leaders in 2011 and 2012 to discuss the issue. The meetings occurred before the Taliban broke off talks. Clinton wanted the prisoner swap to be one of a series confidence-building measures, which also included the opening of a Taliban office in Qatar's capital, Doha, and a Taliban renunciation of terrorism, as part of larger peace efforts between the Taliban and Afghanistan. She also pushed Pakistan to use its influence with the Taliban to engage in the reconciliation talks to end the war, as the United States prepared to wind down in Afghanistan. "You don't make peace with your friends," she told Congress in October 2011. "There first would have to be a demonstrated willingness on the Taliban's part to negotiate and to meet the conditions already laid out for joining negotiations." The Taliban office opened in June 2013, but closed the same day when the group violated the terms by raising their flag, effectively killing talks for six months. Ultimately, the Obama administration agreed to release all of the prisoners at once and, because the Taliban said it would only negotiate over the prisoner exchange, abandoned its efforts at wider reconciliation when the talks resumed earlier this year. Who was swapped for Bergdahl? Clinton on Monday said the ultimate outcome of the exchange is unknown right now. "I think we have a long way to go before we really know how this is going to play out," Clinton said. "You don't want to see these five prisoners go back to combat. There's a lot that you don't want to have happen." But she added, "You also don't want an American citizen, if you can avoid it, especially a solider, to die in captivity." READ: The lengths to which Bob Bergdahl went to save his son READ: Was Bergdahl swap legal? Depends on who you ask READ: Bowe Bergdahl: A deserter or a hero?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/opinion/gingrich-bowe-bergdahl-boko-haram/index.html	opinion	Bergdahl, Boko Haram and Benghazi - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 05:23:40 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Newt Gingrich is a co-host of CNN's "Crossfire," which airs at 6:30 p.m. ET weekdays, and author of a new book, "Breakout: Pioneers of the Future, Prison Guards of the Past, and the Epic Battle That Will Decide America's Fate." A former speaker of the House, he was a candidate in the 2012 Republican presidential primaries. Ali Meshkin is a researcher for Gingrich. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the authors. (CNN) -- The third "B" in the collapse of our national security system and the State Department hit this week. The release of five very high-value terrorist leaders as a swap for one U.S. serviceman was the third strike against the Obama administration's policy of defeat, dishonesty and self-delusion. When Congress starts investigating the Bergdahl case it must broaden the analysis to look at the common patterns which connect it to the administration's approach on two other national security questions: Boko Haram and Benghazi. The first was Hillary Clinton's State Department's decision from 2011 to 2013 to reject requests by the FBI, CIA, Justice Department and many congressmen and senators on both sides of the aisle to list Nigeria's Boko Haram as a terrorist organization. Well before Boko Haram abducted more than 200 girls from a school in northern Nigeria in April, the State Department's arguments for keeping the Nigerian extremist group off the list were almost exactly the arguments used to distort what happened in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11, 2012, and to justify releasing five extraordinarily dangerous Taliban leaders. Boko Haram, we were told, was a local organization without aspirations to international terrorism. This assessment required us to ignore the fact that Boko Haram's first base camp in northern Nigeria was called "Afghanistan" in honor of the Taliban. It required us to ignore the fact that the group burned Christian churches on Christmas Day. It required us to ignore the fact that members of Boko Haram went to Yemen, Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan for training. None of this, self-delusional "experts" in the State Department assured us, meant that Boko Haram was a "real" terrorist organization. Then in 2012 came riots in Cairo and Benghazi, among other places in the Muslim world. These were not caused by vicious, anti-American religious extremists, the experts assured us -- that would have violated the State Department ethos of appeasing others and blaming ourselves -- but by a YouTube video. Then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton eventually went so far as to disavow the content of the video on behalf of the American people. Just as the apology machine began to run at full speed, blaming the obscure filmmaker and absolving the mob of its permanent willingness to attack the United States for any reason, along came the attack that killed the American ambassador and three other Americans in Benghazi. The self-deluding national security machine lied to the entire country and denied what really happened at Benghazi. The driving force in the lies was the Clinton State Department, which specifically asked for the intelligence community analysis to be changed. Now we have the most disastrous of the three "B's": Bergdahl. While we can be glad an American soldier has been returned from captivity, the release of five senior enemy commanders is a defeat of the first order. Taliban leader Mullah Omar declared the swap a great victory. The Taliban got everything it asked for. This swap was a surrender, not a negotiation. It's likely that the five Taliban leaders will all go into action immediately. The notion that their presence in Qatar restricts them is just one more example of self-delusion and dishonesty by the State Department. Both the Treasury and the State Department have identified Qatar as a hot bed of fundraising for radical Islamists. The Qataris have consistently meddled in Middle Eastern countries on the side of radicals and against the U.S. The return of the senior Taliban commanders is as big a defeat as America has suffered in a very long time. Who knows how many will die when these five leaders resume their war against the West? Taliban video shows Bowe Bergdahl's release in Afghanistan President Barack Obama released the five Taliban leaders without ever consulting his Afghan "allies," who must feel very threatened between the previous week's announcement by the president of an arbitrary American withdrawal date and now the unilateral release of five of their mortal enemies. The Left's selfishness, self-centeredness and duplicity abandons allies when they become "inconvenient." Obama's foreign policy successes seem to come at enormous cost to other people. The president's argument that we simply had to cut a deal for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl because of his health goes against the American experience in every recent war. In Vietnam, many American prisoners of war were held longer than Bergdahl and 114 died in captivity. In the Korean War, more than 7,100 Americans became prisoners of war and just over 2,700 are known to have died in captivity. The six soldiers at center of Bergdahl debate What President Obama really did this week is to guarantee a much lower military interest in risking life and limb to take high-value prisoners alive given that there is now a possibility that they will released in the future. Instead, missions will be more focused on killing than capturing these targets. Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl, former officials say The Obama team clearly believed that chanting "We Don't Leave Americans Behind" would be a winning argument. Every spokesperson for the administration repeated the line. Susan Rice, now national security adviser, replayed her post-Benghazi role of going on Sunday shows and either misleading or lying to the American people, claiming that this was "a joyous day." One final example of the Left's passion for self-delusion and dishonesty. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel asserted that we never negotiated with the Taliban. Other administration figures took up that claim. Opinion: Five tough ethics issues in Bergdahl swap It is so pathetic a lie it is hard to understand how he could say it with a straight face. The claim is that the Qataris talked to the Taliban. In this case, of course, the Qataris were our agents and were negotiating for us. But we are asked to indulge the deceit. The State Department may be the second-most urgent reform target after Veterans Affairs. Congress should link together the three "B's" and understand that we are faced with delusion across our national security apparatus. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/world/russia-us-jet-fly-by/index.html	world	Official: 'Dangerous' Russian jet fly-by 'straight out of a movie' - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 07:12:06 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A Russian fighter jet buzzed dangerously close to a U.S. military plane in April, a U.S. official said Tuesday, describing the fly-by as "straight out of a movie." The Russian jet flew within 100 feet of the nose of a U.S. Air Force reconnaissance plane over the Sea of Okhotsk between Russia and Japan, a Defense Department official said. The fly-by "put the lives of the U.S. crew in jeopardy," the U.S. official said, calling it "one of the most dangerous close passes in decades." The incident occurred on April 23, the Defense Department official said, when a U.S. Air Force RC-135U aircraft flying on a routine mission over the Sea of Okhotsk was intercepted by a Russian Su-27 Flanker aircraft. The Russian aircraft turned and "showed its belly" to the U.S. crew so they could see it was armed with missiles, a U.S. military official said Tuesday. The United States did not originally discuss or reveal the incident publicly because it chose to deal with it privately with Russian officials, the military official said. Earlier in April, U.S. officials said a Russian fighter jet made a dozen low-altitude passes over the USS Donald Cook in the Black Sea. On April 28, a Russian Defense Ministry statement said Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoygu and U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel had discussed both incidents during a phone call that day. In response, the statement said, Shoygu "offered to instruct the commanders in chief of the armed forces of both countries to discuss possible additional measures to address the interests of both countries to prevent future misperceptions of actions." A Defense Department readout of that call didn't mention the fly-bys. On Tuesday, the Defense Department official said senior leaders had communicated concerns about the incident directly to the Russian military. And the U.S. official said it hasn't happened again since. U.S. general: Russia increasing flights in Pacific Close call as China scrambles fighter jets on Japanese aircraft in disputed territory Follow these reporters on Twitter: @jimsciutto and @barbarastarrcnn. CNN's Anna Maja Rappard and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/world/bowe-bergdahl-other-countries/index.html	world	Does Bergdahl swap set precedent? - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 04:40:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Could the exchange of five Taliban prisoners for Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl set a precedent for swaps involving other countries holding U.S. military or diplomatic personnel? The Obama administration says "no." State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki was asked by reporters whether the United States would consider releasing the three remaining members of the "Cuban Five," a group of men convicted of espionage in the late 1990s, for USAID contractor Alan Gross, who is jailed in Cuba. Fellow soldiers call Bergdahl a deserter Havana has repeatedly told the Obama administration it wanted to negotiate a deal, saying the men were not spies and were only monitoring exile groups responsible for attacks against Cuba. Gross, who was working for the U.S. Agency for International Development when he was arrested, was charged by a Cuban court in 2011 of being an American spy. USAID has said he was in the country working on a U.S. government project setting up satellite internet connections. Cuban officials tell CNN the United States refuses to engage on the issue. Psaki said the administration remains opposed to such a trade and stressed that Bergdahl's case was an extraordinary measure to free a prisoner of war. What's next for Bergdahl? The Obama administration justified the operation due to Bergdahl's health and safety, which appeared in jeopardy. "In any case, whether it's Alan Gross or Kenneth Bae or others who are detained American citizens, we take every step possible to make the case and to -- take steps to ensure their return home to the United States," she said. Gross's health has been an issue. And Bae is a Korean-American convicted by North Korea on charges of trying to overthrow the government. In April 2013, he was sentenced to 13 years in prison. Bae's family is also worried about his health. He is widely reported to have been carrying out Christian missionary work in North Korea. "We look at each case differently," Psaki said. There have been other instances when a U.S. administration sought to negotiate the release of Americans being held in non-military situations. In 1979, President Jimmy Carter tried to broker the release of the American hostages in Iran. And in 1985, President Ronald Reagan approved secret arms sales to Iran in an effort to secure the release of seven American hostages being held by Iranians in Lebanon. That was the core of what became the Iran-Contra affair. The deal for Bergdahl also raises questions about the United States and present day Iran. Would the United States, for example, release Iranians serving American-imposed prison terms for violating sanctions or weapons trafficking in exchange for Bob Levinson, the longest-held American hostage in U.S. history? Levinson, a former FBI agent disappeared in 2007 in Iran. It has since been revealed he was working for a group of CIA analysts without authorization of the agency's leadership. Iran has long denied any involvement in Levinson's disappearance, but U.S. officials have said they believe he is alive and have urged the Iranian government to help secure his release.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/europe/obama-putin-france-d-day/index.html	world	Obama and Putin may cross paths in France at D-Day commemoration - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:41:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The political pyrotechnics of a face-to-face encounter between U.S. President Barack Obama and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin could eclipse a spectacular fireworks show set to illuminate the Normandy coastline to commemorate the D-Day anniversary. French President Francois Hollande has gone to great lengths to prevent such an uncomfortable meeting. On Thursday evening, Hollande dined with Obama before hosting a separate dinner with Putin. Talk about awkward dinner parties. Obama and Putin are among the leaders invited to take part in French ceremonies Friday marking the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings, which helped change the course of World War II. The two are likely to cross paths in France, Obama said, but no formal talks have been announced. If they should speak, Obama has said, he will give Putin the same message on Ukraine that he has given him in phone calls over past weeks and in his public statements. On Thursday, after a meeting of G7 leaders in Brussels, Belgium, from which Russia was excluded, Obama offered stern words about Russia's actions in Ukraine. Putin "has a chance to get back into a lane of international law," Obama said. Obama said Putin could start by recognizing Ukraine's new President-elect Petro Poroshenko, stopping the flow of weapons over the border into Ukraine and ceasing Russian support for pro-Russia separatists in Ukraine. Putin, in an interview with French television station TF1, did not discount the possibility of meeting with Obama. "As for my relations with Barack Obama, I have no reason whatsoever to believe he is not willing to talk to the President of Russia," he said. "But ultimately, it is his choice. I am always ready for dialogue, and I think that dialogue is the best way to bridge any gaps." The D-Day events also could bring Putin and Ukraine's Poroshenko face to face. Asked if he would speak with Ukraine's new leader, Putin said he will not "evade" Poroshenko or anyone else. "There will be other guests, and I'm not going to avoid any of them. I will talk with all of them," he said, according to the Kremlin's translation. CNN's Laura Smith-Spark contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/politics/obama-workout-reax/index.html	politics	Personal trainer shares details of his workout with Obama - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 11:40:09 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- They're not exactly gym buddies, but a personal trainer in Poland can now say he worked out with the President of the United States. Jean Ekwa was at the Marriott gym with Barack Obama in Warsaw and confessed to some eavesdropping in an interview with CNN's Brooke Baldwin. Someone in the hotel workout room captured every grunt and stretch of Obama's routine, then leaked the video on Wednesday. Ekwa said Obama was lifting 25-pound free weights. "As for the technique, I can't honestly say that it's perfect," Ekwa, a personal trainer, said. Ekwa noted that everyone present in the gym had been scanned by the Secret Service. He said when he first saw the roughly 10 agents at the gym, he didn't think he would be allowed in. "All the people there tried to play it cool," he said. "On the inside I was very excited. I didn't want to do anything that would end up with security guards breaking my arm or something." While Ekwa couldn't give Obama top marks, fitness guru Tony Horton called his form "pretty good." "I'd give him a solid B-plus, maybe an A-minus," Horton, creator of the P90X workout, said Thursday on CNN's New Day. Horton, whose workout has been adopted by Republican Reps. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin and Aaron Schock of Illinois, advised Obama to "breathe a little bit more." But said he was glad Obama decided to hit the gym while abroad. "I'm just thrilled that our President shows up to Poland and ends up doing a workout for a half an hour before going to bed instead of grabbing a Scotch and a cigarette," Horton said. Comments online ran the gamut, as some Twitter users knocked the weight of the President's dumbbells while others cheered him for staying active. Gawker, meanwhile, published a list of Obama's biggest workout mistakes: from "wearing long pants" to not lunging far enough during his exercise. The viral website even called him out for using the elliptical machine. Horton instead focused on the importance of the President's commitment to fitness, which he said helps keep his mind sharp. First lady Michelle Obama has pushed Americans to get in shape and is working to end childhood obesity by encouraging kids to get active through her "Let's Move" campaign, which she launched in 2010. Setback for first lady in food fight with Congress The candid video might have caught Obama off guard, but likely not unaware, former White House videographer Arun Chaudhary said. It shows Obama calmly perusing the rack of free weights, which he used to lunge and lift and perform an intense set of curls. "President Obama is somebody who just acts the same on and off camera and has this unique ability just to sort of not care about it," Chaudhary said. "He is very aware that everybody in that gym has a cell phone and that they're probably taking a video." Chaudhary backed up the Secret Service's claims that Obama was safe, assuring that all hotel guests were without a doubt screened by the President's security detail. "I think it's unusual for us to see the President working out in a gym, but as a security level it's not different than him getting pancakes at a diner in Iowa," he said. "For me, this gym tape is almost ... no different than (White House photographer) Pete Souza's photo of the first lady and the President touching heads in the freight elevator on Inauguration Day," Chaudhary said. The video does show a lanky Obama in a different light than his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, who has been photographed shirtless hunting, fishing and riding horseback. "This is not him strangling a tiger on top of a horse while he's shirtless," Chaudhary said of Obama. "This is someone doing what they do in a non-glamorous way."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/opinion/bergen-guantanamo-risk-of-recidivist-terrorists/index.html	opinion	Opinion: How big a terror risk are former Guantanamo prisoners? - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 10:06:54 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Peter Bergen is CNN's national security analyst, a director at the New America Foundation and the author of "Manhunt: The Ten-Year Search for bin Laden -- From 9/11 to Abbottabad." Bailey Cahall is a policy analyst at the New America Foundation's International Security Program.  (CNN) -- Following the Taliban prisoner swap that led to the release of U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, told Fox News that 30% of the detainees released from the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay "have already gone back into the fight." It's a figure that has been frequently repeated in recent days, but is it true? It depends on who is doing the counting. According to the U.S. Office of the Director of National Intelligence, which regularly releases an unclassified summary report about former detainees, as of January this year, 104 of the 614 detainees (17%) released from the prison have engaged in "terrorist activities," while another 74 (12%) are suspected of doing so. It is impossible to assess the validity of the U.S. government's claim, referenced by McCain, that nearly 30% of the released detainees are confirmed or suspected of engaging in terrorist activity because the government has not publicly released the names of any of these detainees for the past five years. The U.S. government defines a "confirmed" terrorist or insurgent as based on a "preponderance" of information pointing to that conclusion, while someone in the "suspected" category is based on plausible but unverified or single source reporting to that effect. In order to shed some light on exactly which graduates from Guantanamo have joined a militant group or engaged in some other kind of terrorist activity, the New America Foundation analyzed Pentagon reports, news stories, and other publicly available documents to create a list of former detainees who have "returned to the battlefield." The list can be found here. The New America list documents a much smaller number than does the U.S. government. Of the 620 former detainees who have been transferred from the prison camp, we have identified 15 former Guantanamo detainees (2.5%) who are confirmed to have engaged in terrorist or insurgent activities against the United States or its citizens, while there are 21 individuals (3.5%) who are suspected of engaging in such activities. We also identified 18 former detainees (3%) who are confirmed or suspected of involvement in militant attacks against non-U.S. targets. Taking all three categories together, the New America list finds only a third as many Guantanamo prisoners have returned to the battlefield, compared to the U.S. government estimate. A recent example of this is British citizen Moazzam Begg, a former Guantanamo prisoner released in 2005, who was arrested in December on terrorism charges related to the Syrian civil war. He has denied the charges. It's important to note that the vast majority of individuals who are confirmed or suspected to have militant groups were released under the George W. Bush administration, a fact that is missing from much of the current commentary. For the purposes of our study, for a former detainee to be considered "confirmed" that he had joined a militant group, there had to be a preponderance of information claiming he was directly involved in terrorist or insurgent activities. For those "suspected" of such acts, there were plausible but unverified accounts about their involvement in such activities. While it is certainly possible there are some former detainees participating in terrorist and insurgent activities who have not been identified publicly, we are confident that our numbers are reasonably accurate because groups like al Qaeda and the Taliban are eager to trumpet the identities of released Guantanamo detainees who join their ranks, as it is a propaganda coup for them, and the media is also quick to highlight such stories. Based on our findings, even if you combine all of the released detainees who are confirmed or suspected of taking part in any form of militant activity anywhere in the world, the total comes to 54, or 8.7%, which is much lower than the 30% being cited by the U.S. intelligence community and members of Congress. This percentage is also much lower than the recidivism rate of criminals within the United States, which currently stands around 67.5%, according to the most recent statistics by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Some of the Guantanamo prisoners who were released by the Bush administration are certainly quite dangerous. Said Ali al-Shiri, who co-founded al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) in 2009, was transferred to Saudi Arabia in 2007. Shiri completed the kingdom's rehabilitation program and promptly headed to Yemen, where he became AQAP's deputy commander. He was killed in a U.S. drone strike last year. Another example is Abdullah Ghulam Rasoul (who also goes by the name Mullah Zakir), who has emerged as one of the top Taliban commanders. Rasoul was also transferred from Guantanamo to Afghanistan in 2007 by the Bush administration and rejoined the Taliban shortly after the Afghan government released him from custody. Under Obama, the U.S. State Department and U.S. Defense Department use comprehensive threat assessments to determine a detainee's eligibility for release. This has contributed to the fact that of the 88 prisoners released under Obama, we were only able to find publicly available information about one of those who had joined a militant group: Abdul Hafiz, who was returned to Afghanistan and is accused of fighting for the Taliban and targeting Afghan aid workers. (The intelligence community claims five Obama-era releasees have joined militant groups.) Of course the high-ranking Taliban prisoners released in the exchange for Sgt. Bergdahl are not just low-level militants and President Obama himself has admitted that they might pose some future threat. "Is there the possibility of some of them trying to return to activities that are detrimental to us? Absolutely. There's a certain recidivism rate that takes place," Obama said. But these men are not being released freely into Afghan society. They have been transferred to the custody of Qatar, which is a rich, efficient police state and they have been banned from travel for a year. Assuming that ban holds, by the time they are able to travel back to Afghanistan, there will no longer be any U.S. combat presence as American combat soldiers are all pulling out at the end of December 2014. So any potential threat that those five Taliban officials might pose to American targets in Afghanistan will be much smaller by then.  Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/opinion/brazile-climate-change-rules/index.html	opinion	Opinion: New climate rules are a breath of fresh air - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 01:32:07 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Donna Brazile, a CNN contributor and a Democratic strategist, is vice chairwoman for voter registration and participation at the Democratic National Committee. She is a nationally syndicated columnist, an adjunct professor at Georgetown University and author of "Cooking With Grease: Stirring the Pots in America." She was manager for the Gore-Lieberman presidential campaign in 2000. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- The debate on climate change is over. Scientists are now as certain that climate change is a real, man-made threat as they are that cigarettes kill. But cleaning up our air has much more to it than combating shifts in Earth's temperatures and environment. The administration's new pollution standards -- new Environmental Protection Agency regulations that place tough limits on emissions from coal-fired power plants -- are an answered prayer for working families. I'm talking about those many families who endured damaged homes or lost work hours from our more frequent, and more severe, extreme weather. Dialing down air pollution is a gust of relief for a retiree without the luxury of air conditioning, who battles climbing temperatures and brutal heat waves. It's a breath of fresh air for every child playing in the shadow of a power plant, at risk from an asthma attack just by being outdoors. Placing limits on carbon pollution from power plants is about ensuring that we have clean air to breathe and communities that are safe to live in. Carbon pollution limits are about defending families who have borne the heaviest burden of the main pollutant that is driving climate change. Events like Hurricane Katrina and Superstorm Sandy were unlike any weather disasters before. They showed the world who suffers the most from the impacts of extreme weather: low-income families and communities of color. These family communities lack the resources to insulate and protect themselves from the severity of this emerging crisis. Even worse, it is the weeks and months after -- before people go back to work and businesses reopen -- that leave working families especially vulnerable. As we enter hurricane season again, we know that extreme weather events come and go. But before they arrive, it is lower-income families and people of color -- forced by housing market dynamics and land costs -- who live the very closest to carbon pollution sources, such as highways, factories and power plants. In addition to that, they are already predisposed to health risks. The American Lung Association says that in excess of 20.2 million low-income people live in areas with at least one failing grade for its air. There are 4.5 million people breathing air that fails all three of the association's air pollution tests. Sixty-eight percent of African-Americans have homes within 30 miles of a coal plant. Considering that one in six African-American kids has asthma, compared with one in 10 children overall, that is a dangerous fact. An African-American child is 3.6 times more likely to visit the emergency room for asthma, as compared with white children, according to the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Minority Health. Let me tell you a personal story. On the last Sunday of summer in 2005, my niece called me from New Orleans. "We're leaving," she said. "Where are you going?" I asked brightly. "On vacation?" Her answer, and the landfall of Hurricane Katrina the next day, became one of the most humbling periods of my life. Humility and anger turned into my dominate emotions. I was angry for not knowing whether family members caught there without transportation had made it out safely. Or if they hadn't, whether they had survived. I was angry when federal officials told me that I had to wait weeks to find my sister, trapped by rising waters in an assisted-living facility. I was angry that my 92-year-old uncle, stranded on his roof, was flown to Roswell, Georgia, only to suffer a heart attack when he landed. Hurricane Katrina was the storm of the 21st century. It devastated an area the size of Great Britain. More than 1,800 Americans died. Three hundred thousand homes were destroyed. There was $96 billion in property damage. I served on the Louisiana Recovery Authority. I saw Congress write one big check and then skip town. I respected President George W. Bush, who personally visited the Gulf 17 times. Laura Bush visited 24 times. She made certain books were donated to schools whose libraries were washed away. Katrina was not a single disaster but three, a storm that wiped away miles of the Gulf Coast, a flood caused by breaches in the New Orleans levees and an outbreak of violence and lawlessness in the city. We can be thankful it wasn't worse. We can be thankful President Barack Obama is taking aim at one of the prime causes of climate change and extreme weather: air pollution. The EPA's carbon pollution standards are the most significant step forward our country has ever taken to protect our health by addressing climate change. They secure the hope that someday soon, power plants will no longer be free to dump unlimited amounts of carbon pollution into our air. Despite what critics are saying, this is no "war on coal." It's a battle for every American's right to breathe clean air. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/opinion/zelizer-gop-contract-with-america/index.html	opinion	Does GOP need another Contract With America? - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 09:04:50 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Julian Zelizer is a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University. He is the author of "Jimmy Carter" and "Governing America." The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Twenty years ago, Newt Gingrich and the GOP rode to power on Capitol Hill with a slick "policy manifesto" called the   "Contract With America." Today, some Republican lawmakers are calling for another such "contract" with the hope that they can stimulate greater interest in Republican ideas and policies. Frustrated with colleagues who seem more interested in attacking President Obama than in proposing new ideas, Sen. Lindsey Graham and others are seeking a reprise of 1994, when Gingrich's platform touted five ideas that the Republicans promised to pursue if voters gave them power in the midterm elections. But even if Republicans move forward with a new manifesto -- which some in the GOP oppose in fear of overpromising anything in an era when Washington seems incapable of doing anything -- the product would have little effect on the big problem that Republicans are facing. While Republicans stand a good chance of retaining the House and regaining control of the Senate in the midterms, polls show that the Republican brand name is in big trouble and huge portions of the electorate don't trust the party with power. This doesn't bode well for future presidential elections, when many more voters turn out than in midterms, or for their long-term fortunes on Capitol Hill. The problems facing the GOP are much bigger than anything a media-friendly set of promises can provide. Over the years, the Republicans have inflicted great damage on the image of their party. According to a new Gallup poll, the difference between conservatives and liberals on many issues has shrunk dramatically. Conservatives have lost the advantage they have enjoyed on issues such as gay rights. Gallup predicts that voters will soon be reporting themselves as more liberal on social issues than conservative if the trend continues. Even as much of the electorate has moved toward the center or even the left on social and cultural issues like gay rights and the legalization of marijuana, the official Republican Party has stood still, adhering to the ideas from the culture wars of the 1980s rather than adjusting to the realities of modern times. The same is true on immigration reform, where the party has hued to a hardline stance against a path to citizenship despite the fact that polls show strong public support for liberal legislation. There was a moment when Republicans could have moved in a different direction. When he was in the White House, President George W. Bush, through his ideas of compassionate conservatism as well as his strong advocacy of liberalized immigration policies, did push his party to move away from hardline social conservatism, focusing instead on economic and national security ideas. But he failed. Hardline Republicans blocked his agenda, while the controversies over Iraq and how he handled Hurricane Katrina undermined his political strength. The Republicans on Capitol Hill won the debate, and now the party as a whole is paying the cost. Neither have Republicans helped themselves with economic policy. Ultimately, political parties can't thrive without the support of the middle class. Republicans who have inhabited the White House in recent decades, ranging from Richard Nixon's campaign to appeal to the "silent majority" to Ronald Reagan's lure of disaffected Democrats, have found different ways to let voters know that they would back the middle class. Nixon railed against the tumult of the 1960s, appealing to middle-class white Americans who he said were being ignored. Even while courting business, he still accepted policies that helped them. Reagan did the same. Recently, Republicans have had more trouble making this work. Their economic policies leave many Americans feeling that they are left out of the party. This is why that "47%" remark of Mitt Romney in 2012 election resonated so powerfully. Republicans are still in better shape with their economic policies than on other issues, but that too is a fading advantage. They look more like the party of the 1% at a time many middle-class Americans are struggling to get by. Republicans have greatly damaged their reputation as a party that can or even wants to govern. Polls consistently show that more Americans trust Democrats than Republicans to handle the major issues of the day. The Republican strategy of obstruction has been very successful at stifling Obama and rallying support among the party faithful. Vicious attacks are a terrific way to motivate activists to get to the polls but not as good at winning broad support among more moderate and independent voters who want elected officials who can lead. Many Americans have concluded that the Republicans are more interested in obstruction than solving policy problems. Although congressional obstruction can cause great problems for the White House, as Sen. Mitch McConnell famously understood from day one of the Obama presidency, it is not a good way to build broader support for the party. It doesn't look like the adults are in control of the room when Republicans are in charge. No matter what they say, Republicans still don't look like a big parts of the American electorate. The leadership of the party is still white and still male, which does affect who voters think the candidates will support. A recent study by the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University provided devastating findings for the party on this front, showing that the gender gap in terms of political candidates is huge even if Republicans have made slight, very slight, progress in recent years. There are six times as many women, the study found, representing Democrats as Republicans. The number of female Republican candidates running has declined since 2012, despite a concerted effort by the party to bring more of a gender balance to the tickets. Over time, Democrats have steadily improved (PDF) their gender diversity. All of these problems point to the fact that Republicans have some really substantial rebuilding work ahead of them in the coming years. If the party's only solution is a five-point printout, they are unlikely to find themselves overcoming the leadership gap that they face. The GOP needs to do more than make promises; the party needs to reconfigure some of its basic policy agenda to prove it hasn't become a party that has left much of the electorate behind. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/justice/massachusetts-philip-chism/index.html	crime	Philip Chism, 15, charged with killing teacher, accused in assault - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 03:15:44 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Philip Chism, the Massachusetts high school student who is accused of raping and killing his math teacher, allegedly attacked an employee at a youth services facility in Dorchester, where he is being held pending his trial, the Essex County Sheriff's Department said Tuesday. Chism was taken to Boston Medical Center, where a security detail was provided, said Maurice Pratt, the assistant superintendent and spokesman for the Sheriff's Department. "It's an ongoing investigation," Pratt said of Monday's attack. "The Department of Youth Services is working closely with law enforcement to investigate an assault that took place on a member of the staff," said a statement from DYS communications director Alec Loftus. "The safety and well-being of our staff is of primary concern and a full review of this incident will be conducted to identify any necessary security enhancements at the facility," the statement said. The extent of the employee's injuries or what prompted the alleged attack were not provided. Chism, 15, is accused of killing his algebra teacher, Colleen Ritzer. Chism, 14 at the time, used a box cutter he'd taken to school to kill Ritzer, 24, on October 22 in a girls' bathroom at Danvers High School, police and prosecutors said. Chism pleaded not guilty to aggravated rape, robbery and murder charges in January. He is being tried as an adult. Calls to Chism's attorneys -- Susan Oker and Denise Regan -- were not immediately returned. After Chism was reported missing by his mother on the evening of October 22, police had his cellular phone company "ping" the location of his phone. The phone was found to be near the Hollywood Hits Theater, where investigators learned the teen had purchased a movie ticket and then left. A court affidavit said that when Chism was spotted by a police officer the next day, he was carrying a knife; a search of his backpack turned up a bloodstained box cutter. Asked where the blood came from, Chism allegedly responded: "The girl." He was also allegedly carrying credit cards and driver's licenses belonging to Ritzer, as well as a pair of women's underwear. Police discovered Ritzer's body in a wooded area near the school, covered with leaves and debris in an apparent attempt to conceal it, court papers said. Her throat was slit.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/brad-pitt-attack-statement/index.html	entertainment	Brad Pitt speaks out on attacker - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 10:07:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Brad Pitt has a warning for his accused attacker, Vitalii Sediuk: "If he tries to look up a woman's dress again, he's going to get stomped." That's what the actor said on Monday in a statement released to People magazine, referring to the former Ukrainian TV reporter who has had two recent run-ins with actors at red carpet events. On May 28, Sediuk jumped the rope on the red carpet at the "Maleficent" movie premiere and attacked Pitt. Earlier that month, Sediuk went after actress America Ferrera, jumping under her dress on the Cannes Film Festival red carpet. That incident resulted in his being fired from his position with Ukrainian television channel 1+1, and Sediuk was later charged with one count of battery, one count of assault and two violations of the Los Angeles municipal code following his altercation with Pitt. In his statement, Pitt gave his version of what happened between him and Sediuk as the actor strolled the red carpet in support of the film starring his partner, Angelina Jolie. "I was at the end of the line signing autographs, when out the corner of my eye I saw someone stage-diving over the barrier at me," Pitt said in his statement. "I took a step back; this guy had latched onto my lapels. I looked down and the nutter was trying to bury his face in my crotch, so I cracked him twice in the back of the head -- not too hard -- but enough to get his attention, because he did let go. I think he was then just grabbing for a hand hold because the guys were on him, and he reached up and caught my glasses." The "Benjamin Button" star went on to say that Sediuk's actions might influence how celebrities interact with the public in the future. "I don't mind an exhibitionist," Pitt said, "but if this guy keeps it up he's going to spoil it for the fans who have waited up all night for an autograph or a selfie, because it will make (celebrities) more wary to approach a crowd." Grammys stage-crasher reveals his entry plan Will Smith on the red carpet slap heard 'round the world'  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/01/us/california-killing-spree-fathers/index.html	us	Dads Chris Martinez and Peter Rodger meet in wake of killing spree - CNN.com	2014/06/01	Sunday Jun 1 06:11:27 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Two grieving fathers, who each lost a son in the recent killing spree in Santa Barbara, California, met for the first time Sunday. Peter Rodger, the father of killer Elliot Rodger, met with Richard Martinez, whose son Christopher was killed by the younger Rodger in the deadly rampage through the college town of Isla Vista just over a week ago. The meeting was private, and no media or cameras were allowed. "I have met with Peter Rodger and we plan to work together so other families such as ours will not suffer as ours have," Martinez told CNN affiliate KEYT. "This was a private conversation between grieving fathers who've reached common ground." An emotional Martinez has been an outspoken critic of the nation's gun laws in the days since his 20-year-old son, a junior at the University of California at Santa Barbara, was gunned down by Rodger inside a deli on campus the night of the rampage. Police say Rodger killed six people between the ages of 19 and 22 the night of May 23 after years of rejection and jealousy. He was later found dead in his car from a gunshot wound to the head. His family had tried to get help for him in the weeks leading up to the massacre, even calling police to conduct a welfare check, but all attempts at helping the troubled 22-year-old college student failed. Richard Martinez has been so grief-stricken by his son's death that he reached out to the father of his son's killer. Peter Rodger agreed to a private meeting Sunday. No other details of the meeting were available. 'Hell on Earth,' California killer's family says CNN's Paul Caron and Anderson Cooper contributed this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/justice/connecticut-school-killing-plea/index.html	crime	Connecticut teen accused in slashing death pleads not guilty - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 02:14:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A 17-year-old Connecticut high school student pleaded not guilty Wednesday in the slashing death of a classmate in a school stairwell in April, a court official said. Christopher Plaskon appeared in Milford Superior Court, where he waived his right to a probable cause hearing and elected to be tried by a three-judge panel rather than a 12-member jury, according to clerk Linda Kautzner. His attorney, Richard Meehan Jr., told CNN that he is considering a mental health defense. Plaskon is suspected of slashing classmate Maren Sanchez, 16, at Jonathan Law High School in Milford on April 25. He was 16 at the time. A witness saw Plaskon on top of the victim and tried unsuccessfully to pull him away, according to a probable cause statement in the case. Another witness allegedly saw him discarding a bloody knife in a school corridor. The state medical examiner's office concluded that Sanchez died from "stab wounds to the trunk and neck" and ruled the death a homicide. Though the motive remains under investigation, police were looking into whether the boy was angry after Sanchez rejected him as a prom date. "I did it," Plaskon allegedly told a school police officer in the principal's office moments after the crime, according to the probable cause statement. "Just arrest me." Plaskon was ordered held on $3 million bond in April. He was charged as an adult and faces 25 to 60 years in prison if convicted. His next court appearance is July 30, Kautzner said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/justice/new-york-children-stabbed-elevator/index.html	crime	Police: Suspect in children's stabbings arrested - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:36:48 EDT 2014	New York (CNN) -- A New York man arrested in connection with the stabbing of two children in Brooklyn may be linked to another stabbing in a Manhattan subway, a law enforcement official told CNN Thursday. Police believe Daniel St. Hubert, 27, was out on parole when he stabbed two young children inside an elevator -- killing one of them. St. Hubert was arrested by detectives around 8 p.m. Wednesday. He was arrested around the same time that Chief of Detectives Robert Boyce identified St. Hubert by name for the first time as the suspect in the attack. Detectives were obtaining evidence Thursday that could link him to a fatal stabbing on the subway in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, the official said. Investigators were executing search warrants to see if he is linked to additional stabbings since his release from prison on May 23, a law enforcement official said. Law enforcement has been involved with St. Hubert plenty in the past, including nine arrests, though police did not specify all the outcomes. The most recent instance was May 23, when, Boyce said. St. Hubert was released on parole in connection to a domestic assault case. Nine days later, police believe he encountered 6-year-old Prince Joshua "PJ" Avitto and 7-year-old Mikayla Capers inside an elevator at a public housing complex in Brooklyn. Mayor Bill de Blasio said the two children were "on their way to get ice cream" at the time. For reasons authorities haven't yet explained, the two children were stabbed -- both in the torso. PJ Avitto was transported to a nearby hospital, where he was pronounced dead. "These parents are in such pain now," de Blasio said. "... I ask all New Yorkers to help in this investigation any way you can. Do it for this grieving family. Do it for all of us." Police initially said Mikayla was in critical condition. Speaking Wednesday about her current state, the mayor said, "She's doing much better. She's a strong young lady." A knife believed to have been used in the attacks was recovered at the scene. A law enforcement official said Wednesday that DNA evidence from that knife helped police identify the suspect. Police Commissioner Bill Bratton, however, added later in the day that police "said nothing about DNA" while insisting forensic evidence more generally helped lead them to the suspect. As the investigation continues, families of the two stabbed children struggled with the senselessness of the attack. "Pray for her, and us. And pray for PJ's family. This is senseless. I don't know what monster would do something like this," said Regenia Trevathan, the girl's great-grandmother, to CNN affiliate WCBS. Scott Avitto, PJ's uncle, similarly said the violence "doesn't make any sense." "We're all just struggling, we're trying to pull it together," he added. "Our family is strong, but we just want justice to be done." Avitto was related to Taj Gibson, a forward for the Chicago Bulls. Gibson tweeted Monday morning: "They killed my lil super man. #rippj only two more weeks until your 7 birthday. Tears forever." Gibson also posted a picture of Avitto to his Instagram account. PJ's godfather, Henry Alston, said the boy's funeral will be Friday. Investigators are considering the possibility the suspect may be responsible for another fatal stabbing that occurred just two days earlier and blocks away. Tanaya Copeland, 18, was found in the same neighborhood Friday night, unconscious and unresponsive with multiple stab wounds to her torso. Copeland was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital, police said. The close proximity of the incidents, as well as similarities in the type of weapons used, have led detectives to believe the two cases may be related. "We have to proceed as if they are aligned," Boyce said. "The knives are very similar. The proximity is four blocks. We have a basic description of the male." 12-year-old girls accused of stabbing friend CNN's Kevin Conlon, Ray Sanchez, Adam Reiss and Shimon Prokupecz contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/justice/pittsburgh-zoo-mauling-lawsuit/index.html	crime	Family settles lawsuit in son's mauling death at Pittsburgh Zoo - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 02:00:07 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The family of a 2-year-old boy who was mauled to death after falling into an exhibit of African painted dogs has reached a settlement in a lawsuit against the Pittsburgh Zoo. "Details of the settlement will remain confidential," attorneys for the boy's parents said in a joint statement released Monday with the Pittsburgh Zoo & PPG Aquarium. Maddox Derkosh slipped over a railing, bounced into a safety net, bounced again, and tumbled into the exhibit in November 2012. "The Derkosh family and the Zoo request that the privacy of all parties involved be respected," the statement said. At the time, zoo officials said there was little anyone could do after the boy fell. "There were 11 dogs in the exhibit," zoo President Barbara Baker, a veterinarian, said after the tragic death. Although there were zoo employees within feet of the exhibit, and others rushed to the scene, it was too late -- it was clear the child was dead, Baker said. "There was no reason to send our staff into harm's way," she said. The medical examiner found that the little boy did not die from the fall, Baker said. Railings throughout the zoo are designed to make it difficult to place children on them, Baker said. They're at a 45-degree angle so that if a child is placed on one and falls, he or she would hopefully fall backward, away from the animal enclosure, she said. Pittsburgh police said the child was with his 34-year-old mother when he fell from the top of a platform railing and "was immediately attacked by eleven dogs inside the pen." Zoo spokeswoman Tracy Gray said they had no comment beyond the brief joint statement. The parents' attorney, Robert Mongeluzzi, also declined further comment. CNN's Josh Levs contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/justice/boston-marathon-hoax/index.html	crime	False threat charge against man accused of Boston bomb hoax dropped - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 11:02:36 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A charge of making a false bomb threat has been dropped against a man who carried a backpack containing a rice cooker near a crowd marking the first anniversary of the Boston Marathon bombings in April, prosecutors said Wednesday. Investigators dropped the charge because they say the suspect, Kevin Edson, 25, did not communicate an "overt threat that an incendiary device would be detonated," Jake Wark, a spokesman for the Suffolk County district attorney, told CNN. Edson was arrested after carrying the backpack with a rice cooker near the finish line on Boylston Street in Boston while survivors of the 2013 bombing were commemorating its anniversary on April 15. In the 2013 attack, two pressure-cooker bombs exploded, killing three people and wounding at least 264 others. A barefoot Edson, carrying a backpack and wearing black clothes with a veil and hat covering his face, screamed and yelled near the end of the anniversary event on Boylston Street, drawing officers' attention, police said. Wark said prosecutors decided to drop the charge after reviewing statements Edson made at the scene as well as video shot by onlookers. Edson still faces charges of disturbing the peace, disorderly conduct, disturbing a public assembly and possession or use of a hoax device. His next court date is scheduled for August 27. The charge of making a false bomb threat carried the most severe sentence upon conviction -- up to 20 years in prison. Possession or use of a hoax device carries a maximum sentence of five years, Wark said. A judge in April set bail at $100,000 for Edson. The judge also ordered Edson, also known as Kayvon Edson, to be seen at a state hospital that evaluates defendants' sanity after a mental health professional told the judge that Edson has a history of psychiatric disturbances. Defense attorney Shannon Lopez did not immediately return calls seeking comment. How can you keep 26.2 miles safe? CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/tech/innovation/cousteau-mission-31/index.html	tech	One month under the sea with Fabien Cousteau - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:47:20 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Could we one day live underwater? Ask Fabien Cousteau -- a month from now. Cousteau, grandson of underwater explorer Jacques-Yves Cousteau, is spending the rest of June in Aquarius, the world's only underwater marine lab, 63 feet beneath the ocean's surface near Key Largo, Florida. Cousteau and a small team of researchers -- they like the term "aquanauts" -- will spend the month living together in cramped quarters while studying how climate change and pollution affect ocean life. The monthlong operation is called Mission 31, named for the number of days they will live underwater. "I hope this will spawn a new focus on ocean exploration, whether it's living in a habitat or beyond," said Cousteau. He'll be assisted by more than 30 support staff, including filmmakers and researchers from Florida International University, which operates the Aquarius lab. "It takes 24 people topside just to have six people down below for 31 days, just like NASA does for the International Space Station," Cousteau said. Some 50 years ago, Jacques Cousteau and a team of underwater researchers lived for a record 30 days in an ocean lab known as Conshelf II at the bottom of the Red Sea. With Mission 31, Fabien Cousteau hopes to honor his grandfather's legacy while beating his record by one day. The project also marks the first opportunity for fans to follow an underwater Cousteau expedition in real time. Thanks to Internet connectivity inside Aquarius, Fabien Cousteau hopes to reach millions of people through Skype, Instagram, Twitter chats and classroom sessions via streaming video at mission-31.com. We had a rare opportunity to visit Cousteau as he was undertaking his mission and get a glimpse of Aquarius, a lab that has been used by NASA astronauts in pre-mission training. The 81-ton lab sits on stilts and resembles some kind of underwater machinery that's covered with algae, barnacles and other growths. Schools of fish, a stingray, tarpons, a nurse shark and a 300-pound grouper cruise by as we descend the 63 feet to the lab. We enter through something called a moon pool, a small chamber that leads to the entrance of Aquarius. Going quickly from underwater to inside, we begin breathing normal air, but our bodies are still pressurized, so they're reacting to dive-like conditions underwater. Because of that, our time is limited before we have to go to the surface. At 400 square feet, the lab is the size of a small studio apartment. The air conditioning is broken, and you can feel the humidity. "You might find this to be a little weird and trippy, but I actually feel at home down here," Cousteau said upon greeting us. "It is amazing. I couldn't imagine a better house than one under sea." Looking around, we see packets of dehydrated food and chips, which will feed the crew, who can't cook anything. To heat a pan could cause a spark, which is too risky with all the flammable oxygen around. But while the meals are basic, the technology is advanced. The lab and control room are equipped with Wi-Fi, which lets Cousteau use Skype and remain in contact with the world above. There are 4K cameras and dozens of GoPros, along with numerous computers. There's also a refrigerator and a half-dozen bunk beds. A few personal mementos, like family snapshots, are sprinkled around. There are many things scientists already know about what happens when humans spend a lot of time underwater. Weird things. After about 10 days, for example, you start to lose your sense of taste. Your hair grows faster, your voice is higher -- due to atmospheric pressure -- and for some reason you can't whistle (try and you will fail). After scuba diving for six to eight hours a day, you sleep like a baby. That may be helpful, considering Cousteau's team is conducting the longest underwater sleep study to date. Their sleep cycles are monitored constantly with smartwatches. While all this research is important, there's one question that still lingers: What is the point of a mission like this? Cousteau said it's about more than just breaking records. "I hope I am a firestarter, because at the end of the day, who wouldn't want to be an aquanaut?" he said. "I mean, this is just an amazing place. It's our final frontier. We've explored less than 5% of our oceans, so there's a lot left to do out there."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/tech/innovation/movies-drones-faa/index.html	tech	Hollywood to feds: Let us use drones - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:32:28 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's almost entirely illegal to use drones for money-making purposes in the United States. But a little Hollywood magic could change that. The U.S. government is considering a request from movie and TV producers to let them use unmanned aircraft to shoot aerial video. Currently, there's only one exemption to the Federal Aviation Administration's nationwide ban on commercial drones, called unmanned aircraft systems or UAS. That's a spot off Alaska's coast where drones are used by an oil company. But a second exemption could make it easier and less expensive to create memorable movie moments like the opening sequences from Stanley Kubrick's "The Shining" and Academy Award winner "American Beauty." "Unmanned aircraft systems offer the motion picture and television industry an innovative and safer option for filming," Neil Fried, senior vice president for the Motion Picture Association of America, said in a written statement. "This new tool for storytellers will allow for creative and exciting aerial shots, and is the latest in a myriad of new technologies being used by our industry to further enhance the viewer experience. "We welcome the FAA's leadership and support their guidance to safely authorize the use of UASs for the motion picture and television industry." On Monday, the FAA officially confirmed it is considering the request, which came from seven photo and video production companies. The administration's statement acknowledged that Hollywood could see "tangible economic benefits" from an exemption. "However, all the associated safety issues must be carefully considered to make sure any hazards are appropriately mitigated," the statement continued. Companies would still have to apply individually for permission to use drones if the exemption is approved, the FAA said. How to shoot amazing video from drones SnapRoll Media, a production company that specializes in aerial shots, is one of the companies that have asked for the exemption. In their application, published by Ars Technica, a CNN content partner, Snaproll said shots done with lightweight, remote-controlled drones would be safer and less disruptive than current shoots that use helicopters. Snaproll said its drones weigh less than 55 pounds, including camera equipment, and almost always travel at speeds of less than 57 mph. "All flights will occur over private or controlled access property with the property owner's prior consent and knowledge," the Tennessee-based company wrote. "Filming will be of people who have also consented to being filmed or otherwise have agreed to be in the area where filming will take place." The suggestion of an exemption marks something of a change for the FAA. As companies from Web retail behemoth Amazon to pizza chain Domino's have toyed with the idea of deploying drones, the administration has been slow to craft new rules and regulations for them. The Alaska exemption, for ConocoPhillips oil company, came only after prodding from Congress. Hobbyists in the United States are allowed to fly small drones below 400 feet for noncommercial purposes. But one of the administration's key concerns is how to allow commercial drones without endangering airplanes and other existing, manned aircraft. After a decade of pondering, the FAA said it plans to release a proposal for new regulations in November. Even if it does, it could be months, if not years, before the proposals become legally binding. In its statement, the FAA said companies from three other industries have filed similar appeals for exemptions to the federal ban on commercial drones: agriculture, power line and pipeline inspection, and oil and gas-line inspection.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/tech/mobile/apple-messages-app/index.html	tech	Big changes coming to iPhone messaging - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 04:47:12 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It didn't get a ton of attention Monday, but Apple's next mobile operating system means significant changes for how iPhone users send and receive messages. If you're an Apple user, this is a big deal. Messages is the most frequently used app in iOS, and is how most users share texts, photos and videos with each other. With iOS 8, coming this fall, Apple is borrowing features from popular messaging platforms like Snapchat and WhatsApp while unveiling some new tricks of its own. Here's a quick look at the new messaging features announced at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference. We'll find out in a few months whether they catch on with users. Audio and video messages The text window in the next version of iMessage will contain a little microphone button. Users hold a finger down on the button, record a short audio or video message, and send it with the swipe of a finger -- all without leaving the app. In this way, Apple is taking a page from WhatsApp, which also allows audio and video messages. Facebook bought that startup, which has a huge user base overseas, in February for $19 billion. Audio files will appear in your Messages stream as jagged lines. Simply tap on them to listen to the message. Apple did not say Monday whether there will be a limit on the length of the messages. Self-destructing messages Photo and video messages that disappear after a few seconds have been popularized by Snapchat, the mobile messaging app that reportedly spurned multibillion takeover offers from Facebook and Google last year. This ephemeral format has been especially popular with teens and young adults who like to exchange silly or racy messages without fear they'll be haunted by them later. Now Apple is getting into the game. Audio and video messages within iOS 8 will automatically vanish within a few minutes (Apple didn't say how many) unless you adjust your settings. "You don't want to have to clean these up. Audio and video messages can take up space," said Greg Joswiak, head of iOS product marketing. "So they're set to self-destruct unless you choose to keep them." Do not disturb Sure, group messaging threads among friends can be fun. But sometimes all the back-and-forth chatter gets out of hand. This feature lets you mute a thread for a while while reserving the option to rejoin the conversation later. "If you've ever been on one of those noisy threads that just keeps buzzing in your pocket ... you can choose when to leave," said Apple Senior Vice President Craig Federighi, to applause from the audience. CNNMoney: Nice job, Apple. But I'm not coming back Lock-screen functions If you're in a hurry, responding to a message on an iPhone can be a little cumbersome: You have to punch in your passcode and then hit the Messages icon just to get started. With iOS 8, users can listen and respond to audio messages without leaving the lock screen -- just by holding the phone to their ear. The phone detects when it's next to your face, plays the message and lets you record a brief response. Lower the phone, and the message is sent automatically. "It's super easy," said Joswiak. "You can send a message ... just by raising it (the phone) to your ear." This feature seems convenient but potentially glitchy if users send accidental messages just by speaking near their phone. There was no word from Apple on how to avoid this potential problem. Other stuff If your contacts choose to share them, their locations will pop up in group-messaging threads. For the first time, users will be able to add or delete someone in the middle of a group-messaging thread. And message attachments -- images and videos, mostly -- will be collected in one place so you don't have to scroll back through longstanding threads to find them.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/tech/mobile/apple-ios-8-features/index.html	tech	Eight key features of iOS 8 - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 06:47:00 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Apple fans holding out hope they'd see the company's next great gadget on Monday were disappointed. At the keynote address for the company's annual Worldwide Developers Conference, software was king. For owners of the 800 million iPhones, iPads and iPods that run the company's iOS operating system, the biggest news may have been the rollout of its latest version, iOS 8. Due to be released this fall, the new system will update lots of existing features and add some new ones. So, here's a first look at eight key features of iOS 8. Health Apple has been pushing fitness and health apps, such as the one associated with Nike's FuelBand. With Health, they're taking it a step further. Basically, Health pulls together data from different health-related apps into one place, creating a comprehensive profile for the user. It also lets the users send health information to doctors at selected hospitals. It's easy to see this being a prominent feature when (and if) the long-rumored iWatch arrives, which could include sensors that track the wearer's steps, heartbeat and other vital signs. HomeKit Even if it's not the expansive home-automation system that some rumors suggested, HomeKit is a step toward turning your smartphone into a remote control for the connected devices in your home. Apple has partnered with lots of third-party folks (but notably not Nest, founded by former Apple designer Tony Fadell and recently purchased by Google) on the app. By pulling all of those apps' abilities together in one place, HomeKit will let users control their garage doors, locks, lights, cameras and thermostats with their phone. Obviously, some third-party hardware will be required -- at least for now. New tricks for Siri The iPhone's famous voice assistant, Siri, only got a quick mention Monday. But she's learned a couple of new tricks. On iOS 8, users who plug their iPhone into their car will be able to wake Siri up by voice without having to touch their phone. Less distraction on the road sounds like a good thing to us. And you'll be able to ask Siri to identify the song you're listening to, using technology from the Shazam app. 'Do Not Disturb' in Messages This is a simple little feature, but tons of folks following our live blog of the Apple event seemed to really like this one. In Messages, "Do Not Disturb" will let you mute conversation threads that you're a part of without having to leave them entirely. So, if your buddies are nailing down that karaoke outing while you're at work, you can make them hush -- while leaving other threads active -- and come back to the chat later. QuickType Google may be the tech giant most associated with predictive text, but Apple's giving it a go with QuickType. The keyboard feature presumably will make sending messages quicker by guessing what you're writing before you finish writing it, letting you tap and move on to the next word. Phones on Android already have this. But Apple promises that QuickType will learn your language habits, including how you text in different message threads. So for example, it may predict one word in a work-related thread ("Time for my next meeting"), another with your party-time buddy ("Time for my next beer") and a third in texts with your mom ("Time for my next visit"). Interactive Notifications With this one, Apple catches up on another feature already used by Android owners. Interactive Notifications let you respond to things such as text messages, Facebook posts in which you're tagged and appointment reminders without leaving the app you're currently using. To Apple's credit, their version looks pretty smooth. It even lets you tap to reply with a voice recording, image or video without abandoning that killer level of "Candy Crush." Family Sharing Up to six members of a family will be able to share their iTunes purchases across different devices, meaning you and your brother no longer have to pay $6.99 each for "Minecraft." The catch is you'll have to use the same credit card for all those purchases. It's Apple's way of preventing overly liberal interpretations of the word "family." This new feature also will let relatives more easily share calendars, photos, reminders and the like. iCloud Photo Library Apple will now offer more storage for all your photos and videos in the cloud with access to them from any device. The iCloud Photo Library also will include a "smart" editing feature that lets users slide their finger to adjust multiple effects at the same time. For example, the app will allow you to tweak light, contrast and color on photos, with every adjustment automatically updated across all your devices.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/tech/web/stabbing-who-slenderman/index.html	tech	Ghoulish stabbing raises question: Who is Slenderman? - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 01:27:56 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- He's the Internet's own monster, a ghoul who lurks in its darkest corners and, like the Web itself, has mutated time and again to suit the dreams and desires of his devotees. He is Slenderman, a menacing, faceless specter in a dark suit -- sometimes portrayed with octopus-like tentacles -- known to haunt children and those who seek to expose him. He was born in 2009 in an online forum for people who enjoy creating fake supernatural images. And, on Saturday, police say, he played a role in the attempted murder of a 12-year-old girl in suburban Milwaukee by two female classmates who stabbed her 19 times. According to police, the girls said the attack was meant to impress the fictitious bogeyman. To be clear, the origin story of the monstrous character (sometimes referred to as The Slender Man) in no way urged readers to kill to earn his favor. But Slenderman has undergone hundreds of permutations online in his five-year existence. In June 2009, a Photoshop contest for images that appeared to be paranormal was launched in a forum on the website Something Awful. According to Know Your Meme, a blog that chronicles Web culture, the goal of the contest was to create the images and then use them to fool, or "troll," other Web users by submitting them to paranormal websites. Site member Eric Knudsen (under the screen name "Victor Surge") submitted two images to the contest, both black-and-white images of children, one of which appeared to show a largely undefined figure lurking in the background. They were presented as being from 1984, and one included the text " 'We didn't want to go, we didn't want to kill them, but its persistent silence and outstretched arms horrified and comforted us at the same time...' -- 1983, photographer unknown, presumed dead." (Know Your Meme has documented these posts, although links to the original thread no longer work.) A day later, according to Know Your Meme, Knudsen added a third photo and a fictional doctor's account of a mass killing. And, from there, Slenderman's assault on the Internet began. "Some people joked in the thread, 'Wouldn't it be funny if some of these ended up on those paranormal websites or someone said these pictures look real,' " Knudsen said in an interview this year with WNYC's "TLDR" podcast. "But I don't think anyone really expected that to happen." Other Something Awful users began creating their own Slenderman stories. And they spread to other sites. Over the past five years, he's appeared in fan art, short stories, videos, video games and other media all over the Web. A Google search for "Slenderman" on Tuesday returned more than 4 million results. "Marble Hornets" is one of the most popular permutations. It's a video series on YouTube, presented in "Blair Witch Project"-like faux-documentary style, with nearly 380,000 subscribers. Slenderman has also been a popular subject of "creepypasta," a form of Web-based short fiction. A play on the term "copypasta," which itself is derived from the keyboard action "copy-paste," creepypasta is horror fiction written with the Web in mind and, often, done in a style that makes it appear like a news item or other piece of true crime. The girls accused in the Milwaukee stabbing told police they knew the character from the Creepypasta Wiki, a site that compiles such fiction. The site has issued a statement condemning the attack. "This is an isolated incident, and does (not) represent ... the Creepypasta community as a whole," the statement reads. "This wiki does not endorse or advocate for killing, worship, and otherwise replication of rituals of fictional works. There is a line of between fiction and reality, and it is up to you to realize where the line is. We are a literature site, not a satanic cult." Knudsen, too, has lamented losing control of his creation. "I feel like less of a creator and more of an administrator, in a lot of respects, or the manager," he told NPR in the interview from January. Knudsen, who could not be immediately reached for comment, has filed for a copyright on the character. "I feel like I'm Slenderman's manager, and he's out there doing his thing, and I need to just kind of watch him and take care of him." When can kids understand reality vs. fantasy?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/travel/see-through-cabins-future-flight/index.html	travel	See-through cabins and passenger pods: Is this the future of flight? - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:27:55 EDT 2014	CNN celebrates 100 years of commercial aviation with a week of programming presented by resident travel expert Richard Quest. Toulouse, France (CNN) -- The disruptive days of thunderous, fuel-guzzling planes hovering in our skies could be a thing of the past. So too could the tortuous queues and endless boarding process, if futuristic flight concepts become reality. Since the first commercial passenger flight in 1914, 65 billion passengers have taken to the skies and another 65 billion are expected to do the same before 2030. And experts say efficient, greener performance is what will steer aviation into the next century. Read: How airlines make 'less than $6 per passenger' "A major breakthrough in an airliner will bring half a percent, 1% greater fuel efficiency, which doesn't sound like much -- but to an airline, it's huge. It's millions of dollars (in savings) a year," said Robert van der Linden, chair and curator of air transportation at the Smithsonian Institution National Air and Space Museum.  The Airbus A380 is the world's biggest passenger aircraft, and its future depends on constant redevelopment and improving performance. The energy problem is one of the major drivers for the company, Gregor Dirks, corporate innovator for Airbus, told CNN's Isa Soares. "We have to do something about it. Reducing fuel burn is one way, and we have been very successful in the past." The Airbus vision of the future can be seen through its concept plane design, which is packed with the stuff made of engineering dreams. Read: How cool is the airplane of the future? One concept feature is dubbed "eco-climb," where take off is assisted by propelled acceleration for a steeper climb, so that planes reach efficient cruise altitudes sooner. In the concept cabin, seats will use body heat to power aircraft systems such as holographic pop-up pods, while a futuristic cabin membrane can become transparent to give passengers open panoramic views. What's more, Airbus has radical ideas for speedier boarding. "We could think about city center check-in and actually transport little pods to the airport where the passengers are already in and just slide the pod into the airplane," said Dirks. Some of the full-blown features of the Airbus concept plane will become a reality later this century, according to Dirks, but parts of the vision are already being implemented in the current fleet. Titanium brackets used in the cabin have been made using 3-D printing, reducing the weight of the parts, and allowing the manufacture of "organic" shapes that would otherwise be too expensive to produce. "This is going to be a big revolution in manufacturing," predicted Dirks. "Passengers won't see it much but they get more choice and they got it cheaper and earlier."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/health/centenarian-death/index.html	health	Live to 100: Number of centenarians has doubled - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 08:43:06 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It is Her Majesty's custom to send a personal greeting to her subjects on their 100th birthdays. These days the Queen of England has a lot more letters to write. That's because a record number of people are living to 100 and beyond in the United Kingdom -- and worldwide. In fact, one-third of babies born in the UK in 2013 are expected to live to 100, according to their Office for National Statistics. In the United States, the population has seen similar trends. As this centenarian population grows, scientists want a better understanding of how and why those people do eventually die. A new study finds that these 100+ types are more likely to have "old age" listed as their cause of death than chronic diseases, according to lead author Dr. Catherine Evans. How to live to 100 The study, published in the most recent edition of PLOS Medicine, finds that most centenarians die from pneumonia or general frailty rather than cancer or heart disease. Chronic diseases are more likely to kill people who only make it to their 80s and 90s. To get at this information, Evans examined data from the death records of people in the United Kingdom who died between 2001 and 2010. She looked at a group of 35,867 people who were between 100 and 115 when they died. The median age of death was 101. Evans said she was surprised at how large that 100+ population is. It has nearly doubled every decade since the 1950s in the UK. Globally the 100+ population is projected to grow to about 18 million people by the end of the century. Looking at where these centenarians died showed that the majority ended their days in a care home (61%) or hospital (27%). They were less likely to die at home (10%) or in hospice care (0.2%). Earlier studies show the elderly prefer to die at home, so the study authors argue that as this population grows there is an "urgent need to ensure adequate long-term care and responsive community care services to support people living with extreme longevity in these care settings." Dr. Sanja Gupta Chasing Life Since the elderly are often frail, earlier studies have shown that "home" isn't necessarily about the brick and mortar where a person's family lived. Home, Evans suggests, may be more of a "metaphor for where you feel safe and secure, and where your loved ones are nearby." While this study specifically looked at the British population, the number of centenarians has grown all around the world. Dr. Ronald D. Adelman, who works with many of these old-old people as the medical director of Cornell's Wright Center on Aging, said that the study is an important tool to understand a population that's often overlooked. "When it comes to the elderly there are really three groups we look at," explained Adelman. "Those who are considered old, who are 65 to 74 years of age; the older, between ages 75 to 84; and the old-old, which are those people over the age of 85. "But when you look at centenarians, that really is an expanding group, and the important thing is to get their advance directives, to make sure these people express how they want to be treated in their later years, so they can live a better quality of life and be more comfortable. Where do they want to live, how do they want to live and what's best for them?" Eat nuts, live longer Because of advances made in medical technology, and the fact many people entering their golden years are more health-conscious than ever before, Adelman says it's time society takes the elderly, including centenarians, seriously because this older age group will continue to grow and need care. "To be honest, 65 is no longer old," noted Adelman. "Ten thousand Americans are turning 65 every day. There are 77 million baby boomers, who were born between 1946 and 1964. They are more educated, they have the best health literacy than prior generations, they exercise, they eat right and they are living longer, healthier lives. "We need to be able to provide them the best care and services possible, as they age into their 80s, 90s and beyond." Who will live to 100?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/health/weight-loss-roni-tarver-irpt/index.html	health	Weight loss success: Teacher dances off 100 pounds - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 08:45:08 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Do you have a weight-loss success story to share? Tell us how you did it and you could be featured in our weekly weight-loss story on CNN.com. (CNN) -- In fall 2012, Roni Tarver was in a bad mood. The 5-foot-6-inch teacher weighed 235 pounds and suffered back pain almost constantly. She was popping 10 to 15 ibuprofen daily, which took a toll on her stomach. It didn't help that she was on her feet most of the day and dealing with the stress and exhaustion of being a relatively new teacher. Her husband never once said anything about her weight, which made her feel worse about not taking care of herself. She had quit smoking, but knew she needed to get active because climbing stairs still left her winded. "I really married the most sweet, wonderful, compassionate man in the world. He never made me feel bad about it, so I think I felt more guilty," said Tarver, 29, a high-school agriculture teacher who lives in the Fort Worth, Texas, area. She remembers thinking, "Why aren't you taking the initiative? This man loves you for who you are." She had never had the body she wanted. By that November, she had had enough. She was done being just the outgoing, funny girl. She was done being heavy. "I found myself crying in bed one night over my weight, and my husband told me that he thought I was beautiful, but if I was so unhappy, I should do something about it," Tarver wrote on CNN iReport. "This triggered something in me." The very next day, she said, she began monitoring her calories and walking or riding the stationary bicycle six days a week. After two months, she was brave enough to step foot inside a gym. That was January 3, 2013. Soon after, she signed up for her first Zumba class. It was the beginning of her new life. Tarver started sampling every available evening dance class. As the daughter of an aerobic dance instructor, the movements came easily. By the third week, she wanted to be there all the time, dancing to exhaustion under the club lights in the gym's group fitness room. She supplemented classes with one to two nights working out on the elliptical machine and lifting weights. "My instructors were amazing, and made me feel like they loved having me there," she said. "I was having a blast exercising for the first time in my life." One of her instructors, now a close friend, found her on Facebook and would message her if Tarver missed a class. She also offered to make her CDs with music she noticed Tarver liked in class. After 10 months, Tarver's teacher encouraged her to get certified to teach her own classes. Tarver has been teaching Zumba and other classes that combine fitness and dance for the past four months, in addition to the classes she takes. "You really feel like you're in a club, dancing with people, but you don't have a hangover in the morning. At the end of it, you feel awesome, you're exhausted, and you can go back and do it tomorrow if you want. It's good for your soul, if you ask me." Tarver knew exercise wasn't enough to really get healthy. She had to change her eating habits, too. She didn't follow a particular diet, but stuck to a few principles. The first few months, she rarely ate out, if at all, and cut out fast food in favor of salmon or grilled chicken with vegetables. At school, she ate a protein shake or bar for breakfast, a banana, apple, pear or some clementines for a snack, more fruit and a low-calorie frozen dinner for lunch. She used a calorie counter app on her phone to track her intake, sticking to about 1,500 to 1,700 calories per day based on how fast or slow she was losing weight. She also cut out dairy, which was probably the hardest sacrifice. "I could drink a whole gallon of whole milk in two days. I really, really liked cheese and milk a lot," she said. "It was difficult at first because I was so conditioned to eating cheese, but I felt better." After a couple of months, she allowed herself one cheat meal a week -- two bacon and egg taquitos from her favorite fast food chain every Tuesday. She still has that ritual, but is a little freer with her diet on the weekends. When Tarver started her weight loss journey in November 2012, at 235 pounds, she wore size 22 pants and was about 42% body fat. Within 14 months, she was down to 135 pounds, a size 6 and 21% body fat. Her back pain is almost completely gone, she has her dream body and is "the happiest I have ever been." "I can't believe how easy it was -- how fast the weight came off when I was doing the right thing," she said. "I'm thrilled out of my mind with my body." Her husband, Tom Tarver, says Roni has always been beautiful, but it's clear to him how much better she feels. "I'm very proud of her, and I would choose the way she feels now over however she looks," he said. "She's happier, and she is just a fun person to be around. It's the kind of person you want to be married to." Tarver fluctuates between 130 and 135 pounds and considers herself to be in maintenance mode; she carries around some extra skin from the weight loss, but will happily accept the extra skin over the extra weight. "If I could give one piece of advice to anyone struggling with their weight, it would be to find something active that you love doing, and don't give up," Tarver said. "Consistency is key to making any lifestyle changes. Find a support system and tell people what you are trying to do for yourself. When you say it out loud, you become accountable."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/health/mad-cow-disease-texas/index.html	health	Mad cow disease-related death confirmed in Texas - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 01:57:16 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Mad cow disease has caused a fourth death in the United States, health officials say. Lab tests have confirmed that a patient in Texas who recently died had Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease. Variant CJD is a fatal brain disorder linked to eating beef from cattle with mad cow disease, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a press release. Variant CJD was first identified in the United Kingdom in 1996, according to the CDC. Worldwide more than 220 cases have been reported, the majority in Europe. CDC officials said this is only the fourth case to be reported in the United States, and that each U.S. infection is believed to have happened while the patient was traveling abroad. The Texan patient traveled "extensively" to Europe and the Middle East, the CDC said. "There are no Texas public health concerns or threats associated with this case," the Texas Department of State Health Services posted to its website. Variant CJD is different than what the CDC calls classic CJD, which is not related to mad cow disease. Classic CJD strikes less than 400 Americans each year. It is also fatal. Case of CJD confirmed in New Hampshire Mad cow disease is officially called bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE. Animals with BSE have infectious prions in their brain, spinal cord and some parts of the central nervous system. These prions can be spread to humans who eat those specific parts of the cow, or who eat meat that has come in contact with infected tissue or that has been processed in contaminated machinery. Eating meat contaminated with the disease is thought to be the cause of Variant CJD in humans. The first case of mad cow disease was confirmed in a cow in the United States in December 2003. Mad cow disease fast facts CNN's Thom Patterson contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/health/picking-surgeon-youn/index.html	health	Opinion: You don't want a jack-of-all-trades surgeon - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 07:29:41 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Dr. Anthony Youn is a plastic surgeon in metro Detroit. He is the author of "In Stitches," a humorous memoir about growing up Asian-American and becoming a doctor. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely his. (CNN) -- I once worked with a plastic surgeon, let's call him Dr. Saul, who performed cleft lip and palate repairs, face-lifts, breast reconstruction after mastectomy, and even complex repairs of tendons in the hands and fingers. His practice wasn't very busy, so he performed some of these procedures only once every few months. While the breadth of Saul's practice was impressive, I couldn't get over the question: How many different types of procedures can you trust one doctor to perform? As a board-certified plastic surgeon like Dr. Saul, I'm fully trained in cosmetic surgery, hand surgery, burn surgery, cleft lip and palate surgery, reconstructive surgery, and microsurgery. But if your child has a cleft lip or your finger has been cut off, you probably don't want me as your doctor. I'm not a jack-of-all-trades surgeon. And studies show you don't want one. A 2007 study from the University of California, Los Angeles, examined 14,000 endocrine operations and analyzed the complication rates when categorizing surgeons based on the number they performed each year. The group of surgeons with the lowest frequency (one to three per year) was responsible for 15% of all operations but 32% of all complications. This is contrasted with the group that operated with the highest frequency (100 or more per year); they were responsible for 15% of all operations but only 5% of the total complications. A more recent study out of Tulane University looked at adrenalectomy surgery. Researchers separated surgeons into low-volume (one or less procedures per year), intermediate-volume (two to five per year), and high-volume (more than five per year) categories. The patients of low-volume surgeons were nearly twice as likely to develop a complication as patients of high-volume surgeons. The critically acclaimed author and surgeon Dr. Atul Gawande wrote about this subject in his best-selling book "Complications." Gawande visited Shouldice Hospital, well-known for having the lowest recurrence rates for hernia surgery in North America. He found that each surgeon performed the same surgery, the same way, 600 to 800 times per year. This resulted in a recurrence rate of 1%, compared to 10% to 15% at most other institutions. At Shouldice Hospital, repetition breeds success. But isn't there more to it than sheer numbers of surgeries performed? Definitely. Ask any surgical nurse and he or she will tell you that some surgeons are just more skilled than others. A University of Michigan study recruited surgeons to analyze videos of other surgeons performing operations and judge them as being more or less skilled based on the quality of their movements during the procedure. They found that surgeons who were judged as being more skilled had better outcomes and fewer complications than surgeons who were determined as being less skilled. So there's more to choosing a surgeon than simply the number of procedures he or she performs. Bedside manner, meticulousness, quality of training, technique and the surgical facility all play a part in the outcome you might have. But, as a general guideline, it's probably best to consider a doctor who performs a large number of the operation you are considering. Ask your surgeon how many he or she has done before signing up for the procedure. In surgery, you don't want a jack-of-all-trades, master-of-none.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/health/mers-outbreak/index.html	health	Saudi Arabia reports big jump in MERS cases, including 282 deaths - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 08:01:04 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Saudi Arabia reported significantly more deaths from the MERS virus on Tuesday, the same day the country sacked one of its top health officials. The Saudi Ministry of Health reported that 282 people have died since 2012 from the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus, or MERS-CoV, a major uptick from the previous official death toll of 190. This is out of 688 total cases in the Arab nation; 353 patients have recovered and 53 are still receiving treatment. About five weeks ago, Saudi Arabia was reporting 339 known cases of MERS-CoV, 102 of which had resulted in deaths. The new numbers came out the same day that acting Health Minister Adel bin Mohammed Fakieh announced he had relieved Deputy Health Minister Dr. Ziad Memish from his post, according to a statement on the health ministry's website. No reason was given. Last week, the World Health Organization reported it was aware of 636 "laboratory-confirmed cases" of MERS infections, which had led to 193 deaths. It is not immediately clear how Saudi Arabia's latest figures affect those numbers. There are documented cases of the virus around the world. As a coronavirus, MERS is in the same group of illnesses as the common cold. But it is much more lethal: The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention notes that about 30% of those infected have died. Those with MERS have severe acute respiratory illness, including symptoms such as fever, cough and shortness of breath. Some develop more dangerous complications like pneumonia and kidney failure. There is no vaccine or special treatment. MERS is thought to have originated on the Arabian Peninsula in 2012. No one knows exactly where it came from, but evidence implicating camels is emerging. In a recently published study in mBio, researchers said they isolated live MERS virus from two single-humped camels, known as dromedaries. They found multiple substrains in the camel viruses, including one that perfectly matches a substrain isolated from a human patient. MERS: 5 things to know Opinion: Will MERS become a global threat? CNN's Elizabeth Landau contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/health/mrsa-fda-drug/index.html	health	FDA approves drug to treat MRSA - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 03:08:50 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved a new drug to treat bacterial skin infections like Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, also known as MRSA . MRSA is caused by a strain of staph bacteria that's become resistant to most antibiotics. It's life-threatening and is often found in hospitals and other health care settings. The new drug, called Dalvance, is taken intravenously. The drug is only approved for use in adults, according to the Chicago-based company that markets the drug, Durata Therapeutics. What makes it different from other MRSA antibiotics is the way it was approved. MRSA can survive for days on planes This is the first drug labeled by the FDA as a Qualified Infectious Disease Product. QIDP is part of a program that the administration hopes will encourage drug companies to develop new drugs like Dalvance that will fight the epidemic of antibiotic-resistant infections. Any drug designated QIDP by the FDA gets a priority review and expedited review process. If approved the drug also then qualifies for an additional five years of marketing exclusivity. Antibiotic-resistant infections are considered such a threat, in a report released earlier this year the World Health Organization said that these infections could derail the "very achievements of modern medicine." The report characterizes the problem as so bad that a "post-antibiotic era" is "far from being an apocalyptic fantasy." The WHO report says if health trends continue, a time when typical antibiotics don't work on run of the mill kinds of infections is "a very real possibility for the 21st Century." Hospitals getting better about MRSA Antibiotic-resistant bacteria infect at least 2 million people each year, according to the CDC. Of those, at least 23,000 die as a direct result of the infection and many more die as a result of conditions complicated by that infection, mostly in hospital and health care settings. The number of health care spread MRSA cases is declining, according to the Centers for Disease Control. But on any given day 1 in 25 hospital patients has at least one health care associated infection. Most happen to patients who are not in intensive care units. That means you could go into the hospital for a knee surgery and end up leaving with a serious infection that normal antibiotics don't treat. Experts say MRSA became a real problem for the health care system as doctors spent decades over-prescribing antibiotics. Patients who came in for treatments for colds and flus were given antibiotics even though such infections don't typically respond to medication. When you need antibiotics -- and when you don't  Over time, the bacteria that did survive these treatments reproduced and infections that were resistant to antibiotics became wider spread. Outbreaks of MRSA called community-associated MRSA have happened at schools, day care centers, and in gyms, and are typically spread by skin-to-skin contact. Protecting student athletes from MRSA Staph infections typically start with small red bumps which can turn into painful abscesses that often require surgical draining. The latest tool to fight MRSA, Dalvance, was approved after two clinical trials that included 1,289 adults with this kind of infection. The adults were given Dalvance or another antibacterial drug. Dalvance was as effective as that drug for the treatment of this infection. The most common side effects for people on the drug during the trail were nausea (5.5%), headache (4.7%), and diarrhea (4.4%). MRSA: Protect your kid from a superbug  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/health/food-allergies-summer-camp/index.html	health	Surviving summer camp with food allergies - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 07:11:11 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Mireille Schwartz is the founder and executive director of the Bay Area Allergy Advisory Board, an organization that promotes education and awareness. It also provides no-cost medical care and medication to families with severely allergic children. She is the author of "The Family Food Allergy Book." (CNN) -- No doubt your children are ecstatic that summer's here -- and you'll be just as excited when you can send them off to camp, right? Follow these safety tips to ensure food allergies don't get in the way of all the fun: More than 12 million Americans -- including 1 in 13 children -- suffer from food allergies. A food allergy occurs when your body's immune system mistakenly attacks a food protein, triggering the sudden release of chemicals, including histamine. Symptoms may be mild (rashes, hives and itching), but they can also escalate quickly to severe: difficulty breathing, wheezing, a drop in blood pressure, even loss of consciousness. It's important to understand that a food allergy can be potentially fatal; even trace amounts of the offending food can trigger these reactions. There are also unexpected sources of "hidden" allergens in soups and marinades, lurking in fryer vats and garnishes. Cross-contamination can occur when one food comes into contact with another food and their proteins mix on, for example, the same cutting board or on the same serving utensil. As a result, the two foods blend in amounts so small they can't be seen. That's why a camp's dining room or mess hall requires extra vigilance. There's a new bumper crop of camps that have arisen nationwide to meet the needs of severely food-allergic children. Some are day camps and some are "sleepover" camps, but they share one trait in common: they strive to provide a completely worry-free experience where young people with food allergies can build confidence, independence and enjoy a summer rite of passage away from their parents. Food awareness is the focus at these camps. They don't serve the top allergens, or the "Big 8": milk, soy, wheat, egg, peanuts, tree nuts, fish and shellfish. Some are also sesame-free and gluten-free to accommodate almost every food allergic lifestyle. The real world certainly isn't allergy-free, however, and some parents might prefer a more practical environment where older tweens and teens can learn to manage and coexist in an allergy-filled world. Gaining the skill to communicate effectively while advocating for oneself is a useful tool in all aspects of life. Depending on the camp's administration, their medical care and their emergency protocols, it can be possible and enriching to attend a "regular" camp with friends and siblings. In choosing a camp for my nut-allergic daughter, this is also our annual personal choice. It is essential to prepare ahead of time. Camp staff, physicians, parents and your campers themselves need to work together to minimize risks. As a parent or guardian, there's plenty you can do to arm yourself with knowledge about your youngster's traditional summer camp. Consider asking: Is your camp accredited? Does the camp have designated personnel to handle an emergency? Does the camp have a policy for managing food allergies? Most importantly, do camp counselors know how to inject epinephrine? If so, where exactly will medications to treat an allergic reaction be kept? If the camp is in a rural area, you should know how far the camp is from the closest emergency facility and whether the facility has a doctor available 24/7. The kitchen coordinator and staff are also an integral part of this safety plan. Ask how they will help prevent accidental ingestions. Will ingredients be labeled in the dining area? What about safe snacks in cabins? Are the food service personnel educated about creating a safe meal free of cross-contamination? If you're unsure the kitchen staff will comply, your camper may want to provide his or her own coolers of safe snacks and even meals, complete with dedicated, safe cooking utensils. Make sure the area where these are stored will be designated as "allergy free" to avoid any and all cross-contamination. Camp counselors and activity leaders can be key in the line of defense. How will the camp communicate your child's food allergy information to them? Will campers be outside the camp on field trips (lake, bike or hiking trails) and, if so, where will medication be kept in this scenario? What about allergen avoidance during arts and crafts, such as egg cartons, paints or bird feeders? It may seem like a lengthy, exhausting list (and no doubt you can add on with even more pertinent questions relating to your own specific family allergies). But it's absolutely possible to survive and thrive with food allergies at summer camp. Until there's a cure, we can help each other along the way by keeping an open dialogue. Share your tips for food allergy safety below.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/showbiz/game-of-thrones-author/index.html	entertainment	'Game of Thrones' author wants to kill you -- for charity - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 04:37:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Want to get killed off in a "Game of Thrones" book? "Game of Thrones" author George R.R. Martin is offering just that chance to help raise money for the Wild Spirit Wolf Sanctuary and the Food Depot in Sante Fe, New Mexico. Fans who visit his page on celebrity fundraising site Prizeo can make a donation and be entered to win a trip for two to New Mexico where they'll ride a helicopter tour the Wild Spirit Wolf Sanctuary with Martin. Donation levels range from $10 to $20,000 and the larger to gift the more opportunity there is to receive goodies. For example, $100 gets a donor a campaign T-shirt and a thank you video. $4,500 could yield a script of the first ever episode signed by the cast and crew and $7,500 snags a pair of tickets to the Season 5 premiere of the "Game of Thrones" television series. But the biggest prize goes to the first fans with deep pockets to ante up. For $20,000, one male and one female character will be named after the donor in a future novel with the author promising the character will "certainly meet a grisly death." If you have read his books or watched the show, you know he means it.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/showbiz/gary-glitter-arrest-on-sex-charges/index.html	entertainment	Former pop star Gary Glitter faces 8 sex charges - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:55:17 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Former British pop star Gary Glitter was arrested Thursday and charged with committing eight sex offenses against two teenage girls more than three decades ago. Glitter, 70, whose real name is Paul Gadd, was known as a "glam rocker" in the 1970s for his flamboyant clothes and performing style. He sold 18 million records with hits like "I'm the Leader of the Gang," "I Love You Love Me Love" and "Rock 'n' Roll." He was charged with six counts of indecent assault, one count of administering a drug to facilitate sexual intercourse and one count of sexual intercourse with a girl under age 13, the Crown Prosecution Office said. The offenses happened between 1977 and 1980 when the girls were 12 to 14 years old, the Crown Prosecution Office said. There was not sufficient evidence to prosecute five allegations made by two other complainants, authorities said. Glitter is scheduled to appear June 19 in court. Glitter has been prosecuted previously on sex charges. In 1999 he admitted possessing child pornography and was jailed for four months. While living in Vietnam he was convicted of sex offenses against young girls and jailed nearly three years before being deported to England. Another British pop culture figure was accused of sex crimes in recent years.  In 2012, women came forward to allege television disc jockey and television star Jimmy Savile had sexually molested them decades earlier when they were in their mid-teens. Savile died in 2011 at age 84. CNN's Lorenza Brascia contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/showbiz/movies/shailene-woodley-fault-in-our-stars/index.html	entertainment	Shailene Woodley: What I learned from 'Fault in Our Stars' - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:51:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Shailene Woodley isn't just the lead actress in "The Fault In Our Stars." She's one of the book's original fans. Long before she landed the role of Hazel Grace, a bright 16-year-old facing cancer, she sent the novel's author, John Green, an impassioned, lengthy e-mail rallying for "The Fault In Our Stars" to become a movie. "I didn't say I needed to be Hazel," Woodley said at the movie's New York premiere on June 2. "I said I needed this movie to get made. Because I knew that it would change the lives of millions of people." If the movie version of "The Fault In Our Stars" is anything like the book, Woodley will soon be proven right. The adaptation, now in theaters, is faithful to its beloved source material, which chronicles the romance between two cancer patients with humor, intelligence and honesty. Author Green had already amassed a fan base when "The Fault In Our Stars" was released as a novel in January 2012, one devoted enough to earn him the title of "The Teen Whisperer."  But "The Fault In Our Stars" has stretched far beyond its intended young adult demographic, selling millions of copies and sticking to The New York Times Young Adult best-seller list for 78 weeks. Young adult books and sex: What we learned under the covers Time magazine didn't name it "The Best YA Novel of 2012"; it recognized it as the year's best book, period, the kind of endorsement Woodley could get behind. The 22-year-old actress, who is developing a reputation for pushing back against Hollywood's rules, recently explained to New York Magazine the impact she thinks "Fault In Our Stars" could have. "In 'Fault,' I am trying to rewrite what a female lead can look like," Woodley said. "You've never seen a woman on the poster for a movie with a cannula in her nose." Although Woodley said she wasn't gunning for the role of Hazel when she wrote Green, the author remembers that exchange a bit differently. "The letter was extremely long, like 40 pages long, and ... I didn't technically know who Shailene Woodley was," he said. "So I just responded like, 'That's such a lovely e-mail! Thank you so much! But I am not a casting director.' And then when I saw her audition, of course I was horrified that I had not written her back and said, like, 'Please! Please! Be in our movie!'" Of course it's unlikely that Green, who calls Woodley "a gift" to the film, would have had to beg. Woodley, who's gone from ABC Family's "The Secret Life of the American Teenager" to high-profile projects like "The Descendants" and "Divergent" in the blink of an eye, was game for the role, chopping off her long hair to accommodate the part. In the process, she gained something as well: "a deeper sense of gratitude" for life. "On this beautiful day, there's kids at home in bed hooked up to chemo machines," Woodley reflected at the movie's June 2 premiere. "There's no way to justify it. So, really, it taught me a deeper sense of gratitude and a deeper sense of appreciation for these small palpable moments, because they're the only thing that we're guaranteed." CNN's Joan Yeam contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/showbiz/acting-coach-sex-assault/index.html	entertainment	 'Jurassic Park' actor charged in rape - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 03:20:02 EDT 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- A 54-year-old acting coach, who's also appeared in bit parts in movies such as "Jurassic Park," has been charged with kidnapping and raping a girl who approached him for lessons, authorities said. Cameron Thor was charged this week in connection with the attack on a 13-year-old girl in 2008, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office said. According to authorities, the girl met with Thor about attending acting classes. After the meeting, he allegedly drove her to a secluded area and, according to police, sexually assaulted her. Officials did not say why the incident is only now coming to light. Sheriff's Deputy Chrystal Hernandez told CNN that Thor confirmed to one of the investigating detectives that he played a small role in "Jurassic Park." His IMDB profile says he also appeared in "Hook" and "A Few Good Men." Thor does not have listed representation. He was arraigned Thursday and is being held on $2.6 million bail.   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/showbiz/music/carrie-underwood-cmt-music-awards/index.html	entertainment	CMT Music Awards: Carrie Underwood's big night - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 10:29:03 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Carrie Underwood continued her reign over the CMT Music Awards on Wednesday night. The platinum-selling singer and former "American Idol" champion took home the country music ceremony's top honor, video of the year, for her hit "See You Again." It was the fifth time Underwood snagged the award and her third win in a row. Before accepting her buckle, Underwood performed "Somethin' Bad," her duet with fellow country superstar Miranda Lambert, who won female video of the year for her tune "Automatic." Lambert's husband, singer and "The Voice" coach Blake Shelton, scored in the male video category for "Doin' What She Likes." Shelton was also on hand to present Cassadee Pope with the breakthrough video of the year for "Wasting All These Tears." Shelton mentored Pope on "The Voice," and when she won, an overwhelmed Pope asked, "What do I do?" to which Shelton joked, "still coaching you." Other winners included Florida Georgia Line, who won duo of the year for "Round Here" and collaborative video of the year with Luke Bryan for "This Is How We Roll." Bryan and Lionel Richie also won the CMT performance of the year awards for "Oh No/All Night Long." But the night belonged to the many performances of the evening. Florida Georgia Line, Bryan and pop singer Jason Derulo teamed up for a mashup of their respective hits "This is How We Roll" and "Talk Dirty," while R&B star John Legend, Jennifer Nettles and Hunter Hayes performed a specially arranged version of Legend's No. 1 hit "All of Me." Kacey Musgraves and Lee Ann Womack paid a performance tribute to Alan Jackson, who was honored for his 25 years in the industry with the first CMT Impact Award. Actress Kristen Bell hosted the awards show in Nashville.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/50-cent-pitch-explanation/index.html	entertainment	50 Cent's unexpected (and sexual) explanation for his terrible pitch - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 07:04:30 EDT 2014	(EW.com) -- Rapper, entrepreneur, actor, and investor Curtis James Jackson III, better known by his stage name 50 Cent, can add a new credit to his bio: God-awful pitcher. The Queens-born rapper threw the first pitch at a Mets game last week, and missed, terribly. We mean really terribly. Really, really terribly. The Internet quickly responded, dubbing Fiddy's misstep one of the worst pitches ever, if not the worst. In fact, the pitch was so bad that Jackson, known for hits like "Candy Shop" and "In Da Club," told Good Morning America that a cop pulled him over just to tell him, "You know that pitch was really terrible." Then, he let him go. No ticket, just a laugh. Is Jackson's whiff really as bad as Carly Rae Jepsen, Carl Lewis, or Mariah Carey's attempts at first-pitchdom? Maybe not, but his explanation certainly was. In a Reddit AMA on Tuesday, a user asked, "Yo $0.50...what happened on that first pitch?" His response: "I have skeletal muscle injury on my left shoulder from excessive masturbation so take it easy lol." He has to be kidding, right? You be the judge. For more of Fiddy's amusing banter, head over to the full Reddit AMA. See the original story at EW.com.   CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/melissa-etheridge-married/index.html	entertainment	Melissa Etheridge gets married - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 12:00:25 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/rihanna-see-through-dress-cfda/index.html	entertainment	Rihanna bares almost all in sheer, sparkly dress - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 11:25:16 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Rihanna's presence at Monday's CFDA Fashion Awards nearly eclipsed the ceremony itself, and she did it while wearing almost nothing at all. The 26-year-old singer arrived at the stylish event, held by the Council of Fashion Designers of America, in a floor-length sparkling gown that recalled the era of Josephine Baker. Custom-made by designer Adam Selman, the mostly backless number shone from more than 230,000 Swarovski crystals and was accented with a baby pink feather boa, gloves and a glittering turban. But it wasn't just Rihanna's effortless 1920s glamour that turned heads. As Selman described to Style.com, "the dress is just fishnet and crystals and a couple of fingers crossed." That left everything that wasn't covered by a flesh-colored thong on full display. "It's so naked," Rihanna's stylist, Mel Ottenberg, added to Style.com. "I don't know if it's shocking -- I'm with her all the time, so my shock gauge is off -- but I told her that I thought she was ready for this dress a while ago, and that I wasn't. I'm the prude, and I'm just catching up." Ottenberg may still be getting used to the revealing look, but some observers -- like fashion magazine Vogue -- have heartily approved. @Rihanna It must feel incredible going from a tomboy-ish cadet young girl to a fashion icon, all by the age of 26. SLAY GIRL, SLAY. "Rihanna has become the rare celebrity who does not follow fashion -- she affects it," the magazine tweeted on Monday. Vogue Editor-in-Chief Anna Wintour was at the ceremony to present Rihanna with the CFDA's 2014 Fashion Icon award. "Fashion should never be frustrating," Rihanna said during her acceptance speech. "It should be fun."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/showbiz/music/led-zeppelin-stairway-to-heaven-suit/index.html	entertainment	Suit filed against Led Zeppelin for 'Stairway to Heaven' - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 12:49:19 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A lawsuit has been filed claiming that the iconic Led Zeppelin song "Stairway to Heaven" was far from original. The suit, filed on May 31 in the United States District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania, was brought by the estate of the late musician Randy California against the surviving members of Led Zeppelin and their record label. The copyright infringement case alleges that the Zeppelin song was taken from the single "Taurus" by the 1960s band Spirit, for whom California served as lead guitarist. "Late in 1968, a then new band named Led Zeppelin began touring in the United States, opening for Spirit," the suit states. "It was during this time that Jimmy Page, Led Zeppelin's guitarist, grew familiar with 'Taurus' and the rest of Spirit's catalog. Page stated in interviews that he found Spirit to be 'very good' and that the band's performances struck him 'on an emotional level.' " One of the causes of action for the suit is listed as "Falsification of Rock N' Roll History" and the typeface in the section headings of the filing resembles that used for Led Zeppelin album covers. According to claims in the suit, "Parts of 'Stairway to Heaven,' instantly recognizable to the music fans across the world, sound almost identical to significant portions of 'Taurus.' " The estate is seeking court ordered damages and writing credit for California, born Randy Craig Wolfe. Part of the defense includes a printed interview conducted with California prior to his death from drowning in 1997. In the 1997 interview with Listener Magazine, the guitarist claims that some of the music from "Stairway to Heaven" was taken from his group's song. "Well, if you listen to the two songs, you can make your own judgment," the lawsuit quotes the interview as saying. "It's an exact ... I'd say it was a rip-off. And the guys made millions of bucks on it and never said, 'Thank you,' never said, 'Can we pay you some money for it?' It's kind of a sore point with me." In a May interview with France's Liberation newspaper, Page said of the claims "That's ridiculous. I have no further comment on the subject." The attorney representing California's trust, Francis Malofiy, told CNN before the suit was filed that Zeppelin's guitarist Page "looked to Randy California and Spirit as someone who inspired him." The attorney also explained why it took so many years for a suit to be filed. "Justice is available to those who can afford it," Malofiy said, "It's very very hard for a musician who's struggling just to keep a roof over his head ... to actually go about and fight some of the biggest giants in the music and entertainment industry." One of the plaintiffs of the case, Warner Music Group, is owned by the parent company of CNN. Led Zeppelin reissued their first three albums as both a single remastered album and deluxe editions on Tuesday. Take a listen to the songs: What do you think? Plagiarism or just similar chords?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/showbiz/tv/homeland-new-actors/index.html	entertainment	'Homeland' recruits two actors for season 4 - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 05:50:52 EDT 2014	(EW.com ) -- Showtime is sharing a few pieces of intel about "Homeland:" Two new roles have been cast for the upcoming fourth season. Corey Stoll  who earned a Golden Globe nomination for his role on "House of Cards" and whose credits include "The Normal Heart" and "Midnight in Paris"  will guest-star as Sandy Bachman, the CIA chief of station in Pakistan who's a rising star within the agency. The number of episodes Stoll will appear in is being kept under wraps. EW's full "Homeland" coverage In addition, Laila Robins will join the cast as a series regular in the role of Martha Boyd, U.S. ambassador to Pakistan. Martha is described as "professional and put together, with a ship-to-ship voice and the personality to match." Robins, who appeared in multiple episodes of "Bored to Death," "Law & Order," and "The Sopranos," also starred in the big-screen comedy "Planes, Trains, & Automobiles." EW: 'Homeland' TV Academy panel - 6 things we learned Season 4 moves the action overseas as Carrie Mathison (Claire Danes) returns to the Middle East as chief of station. Mandy Patinkin, Rupert Friend, Nazanin Boniadi, are among the cast returning for the new season, which kicks off production in South Africa later this month and will hit the air this fall. See the original story at EW.com.  CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/showbiz/andy-cohen-show-ew/index.html	entertainment	Andy Cohen-produced 'I Slept With a Celebrity' in development - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 03:15:42 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Whelp, this is the natural conclusion of the social media overshare/celebrity-obsessed age: The reality show "I Slept With a Celebrity," executive produced by Bravo's Andy Cohen, is currently being shopped around to various networks, according to The Hollywood Reporter. "Each weekly episode will feature two guests dishing about how their walk with fame led to a walk of shame, describing where they met, where they went and what they wore  or didn't," THR reports. (A rep didn't immediately respond to EW's request for confirmation.) EW: Lea Michele 'pleads the fifth' when asked about Matthew Morrison on 'WWHL' Cohen producing seems like an interesting choice; his "Watch What Happens Live!" on Bravo is very goofy and celeb-friendly. It'll be interesting to see if guests are as willing to continue being chummy with him if embarrassing stories come to light on "I Slept With a Celebrity." The project is in the early stages right now, so it remains to be seen if viewers' gag reflex will keep eyeballs away, or if millions will secretly watch it in their homes with a car-crash-like inability to look away. (See also: Clicking on Kardashian wedding photos.) Either way, there are more than a few actors in Hollywood right now who just got a sinking feeling in their stomachs... See the original story at EW.com.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/giuliana-bill-rancic-miscarriage/index.html	entertainment	Giuliana and Bill Rancic reveal miscarriage - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 05:31:27 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Bill and Giuliana Rancic have revealed their fertility struggles continue. The pair told People magazine that their surrogate recently suffered a miscarriage. The couple have a toddler son, Duke, who was born via surrogate in 2012. Bill Rancic said this past season of their E! reality show, "Giuliana and Bill," has been about their attempt to have another baby. "Unfortunately our surrogate, Delphine, who we love very much, had a miscarriage," he said. "It's something that we didn't see coming. We were devastated." Giuliana Rancic, who is a host on E!, tried in-vitro treatments to get pregnant and in 2011 announced that she had breast cancer. She underwent a double mastectomy. Her husband said they will continue to try to grow their family with the help of the surrogate. "We're fighters," he said. "Hopefully we're going to have good news and Delphine will be on board one more time. We've had to battle it out and that's something that we're going to continue to do."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/showbiz/movies/jupiter-ascending-release-date-2015/index.html	entertainment	'Jupiter Ascending' pushed to 2015 - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 12:37:45 EDT 2014	(EW.com) -- Fans of Lana and Andy Wachowski will have to wait a little bit longer to delve into the probably dizzying mythology of "Jupiter Ascending." Warner Bros. has bumped the sci-fi spectacle from a long-scheduled July 18 release to February 6, 2015, Entertainment Weekly confirmed Tuesday. 'Jupiter Ascending': First look at Channing Tatum's albino warrior Starring Channing Tatum as a "half-wolf, half-albino warrior" and Mila Kunis as a janitor whose perfect genetic makeup threatens the reign of the Queen of the Universe, the story kicks into gear when the Queen attempts to have her assassinated. Marvel has a director for 'Doctor Strange' Sean Bean, Eddie Redmayne and Gugu Mbatha-Raw also star in the film, which has already debuted a number of trailers. Check out the latest one: See the original story at EW.com.  CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/showbiz/movies/monty-python-where-are-they-now/index.html	entertainment	'Monty Python's Flying Circus': Where are they now? - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 02:51:01 EDT 2014	 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/showbiz/movies/star-wars-lupita-nyongo/index.html	entertainment	Lupita Nyong'o joins 'Star Wars' cast - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 02:01:47 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It continues to be the year of Lupita Nyong'o. The Oscar-winning actress has joined the cast of "Star Wars: Episode VII," it was announced on Monday. Also joining the J.J. Abrams-directed film cast is Gwendoline Christie, best known for her role as Brienne of Tarth in "Game of Thrones." "I could not be more excited about Lupita and Gwendoline joining the cast of Episode VII," Lucasfilm President Kathleen Kennedy said in a press release. "It's thrilling to see this extraordinarily talented ensemble taking shape." The two will join the already announced cast of John Boyega, Daisy Ridley, Adam Driver, Oscar Isaac, Andy Serkis, Domhnall Gleeson, and Max von Sydow. Former stars of the franchise Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford and Carrie Fisher will be reprising their 1977 roles from the original, hit film. Following the announcement Nyong'o tweeted "I can finally say it out loud and proud: I'm going to a galaxy far far away!" along with an Instagram picture of the "Star Wars" logo. I can finally say it out loud and proud: I'm going to a galaxy far far away! http://t.co/b39DjEEAzB This year Nyong'o won a best supporting actress Academy Award for her breakthrough performance in the film "12 Years a Slave." She was also named one of CNN's Fresh Faces for 2014 and People magazine's 2014 most beautiful person. Lupita, a Cinderella for everybody Lupita named People's most beautiful person of 2014  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/showbiz/movies/box-office-maleficent-ew/index.html	entertainment	Box office report: 'Maleficent' reigns with $70 million - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 10:48:22 EDT 2014	(EW.com) -- "Maleficent" managed to enchant audiences and take flight opening weekend while Seth MacFarlane's sophomore effort, "A Million Ways to Die in the West," stumbled out of the gates. Disney's gothic fantasy, a PG-rated re-imagining of the classic Sleeping Beauty villain starring Angelina Jolie in the titular role, netted an estimated $70 million from 3,948 locations  $6.7 million of which was from the 347 IMAX screens. Boasting an A Cinema Score, the $180 million pic also brought in $100.6 million internationally from 47 territories (40 percent ahead of "Oz: The Great and Powerful"), bringing its global cume to a mighty $170.6 million. It opens in China on June 20 and in Japan on July 4. "We're feeling great," Dave Hollis, Disney's distribution head told EW. "We came into the weekend thinking that we were going to do somewhere around $60 million and to end up with $70 million is a really encouraging start." EW: Review of 'Maleficent' As far as "Maleficent's" demographics go, 60 percent of audiences were female, 45 percent families, and 18 percent teens. On Saturday, audiences were strong at all showings, from matinees to late night. "It feels like there's some momentum and great word-of-mouth helping to propel the picture overall," said Hollis. "It's good to see that during the daytime you can be a really meaningful option to families." But, the late-night business is key, too, he said. It shows that it appeals to a cross-section of demographics. He added: "It's a nod to the draw of Angelina Jolie. She has had such extraordinary passion for this role." EW: Angelina Jolie Q&A - Bringing malevolent 'Maleficent' to life Last weekend's shiny new comic book movie, "X-Men: Days of Future Past," plummeted 64 percent in its second weekend with $32.6 million to take the No. 2 spot. Most high-opening actioners are front-loaded, so this wasn't unexpected, although it is on the higher end. Second weekend falls have been all over the place in this seven-movie franchise. For comparison's sake, "X-Men: The Last Stand" fell nearly 67 percent in weekend two, while X-Men: First Class fell only 56 percent. But the Fox saga is doing just fine. The $200 million film has made an estimated $162 million domestically, and $500 million worldwide. Seth MacFarlane's "A Million Ways to Die in the West" (B Cinema Score) did not fare so well, opening in third place with $17.1 million from 3,158 locations. That's less than half of what Ted opened at in 2012 ($54.4 million), and also below studio and analyst expectations, which assumed that the Western comedy would at least break $20 million. In terms of the audience, 45 percent were female and 28 percent were under 25 for the raunchy R-rated pic. Internationally, "A Million Ways" opened in 21 territories and brought in $10.3 million, bringing its worldwide total to $27.4 million. Westerns are historically a tricky genre to track, and combined with the fact that MacFarlane is an untested lead (as himself at least), this was much more of a wildcard than we initially assumed. But, the pic, which reportedly cost a modest $40 million to produce, could have legs amongst MacFarlane's devotees in the long run. "I'm disappointed. I wouldn't tell you otherwise," Nikki Rocco, Universal's President, Distribution, told EW. "We would have hoped it would have been a little bit better, but it's not a grave loss to the studio." Rounding out the top five are Warner Bros. and Legendary's "Godzilla" and "Blended" (Warner Bros. as well). The King of the Monsters brought in $12.23 million in its third weekend in theaters, bringing its domestic total to $174.66 million. Finally, in weekend two, Adam Sandler's comedy "Blended" managed to beat out Neighbors (now in its fourth weekend in theaters) to take the fifth place spot with $8.43 million. The $40 million pic has made an estimated $29.63 million to date, domestically. Here's the top five: 1. Maleficent  $70 million (domestic total: $70 million) 2. X-Men: Days of Future Past  $32.6 million (domestic total: $162.1 million) 3. A Million Ways to Die in the West  $17.1 million (domestic total: $17.1 million) 4. Godzilla  $12.23 million (domestic total: $174.66 million) 5. Blended  $8.43 million (domestic total: $29.63 million) UPDATE: In the specialty box office world, Cinedigm's "Night Moves," starring Jesse Eisenberg as a radical environmentalist, made $24K from two locations. Entertainment One's "The Grand Seduction," starring Brendan Gleeson and Taylor Kitsch, opened in three locations to $18K, and Sebastian Junger's Korengal made $15K from one location. Next weekend Warner Bros.' "Edge of Tomorrow," starring Tom Cruise and Emily Blunt, takes on Fox's teen drama "The Fault in Our Stars," starring Shailene Woodley and Ansel Elgort. See the original story at EW.com.   CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/justin-bieber-racist-video/index.html	entertainment	Justin Bieber again caught in racial controversy - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 04:48:32 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Another racially insensitive video featuring Justin Bieber has surfaced. On Wednesday, the site TMZ posted a video of a then 14-year-old Bieber changing the words to his hit "One Less Lonely Girl" to include the "N-word" and singing about joining the Ku Klux Klan. A source close to Bieber confirms to CNN that the singer was 14 at the time of the incident and made the recording after he saw a comedian parodying his "One Less Lonely Girl" song online. In the parody, the comic replaced some of the lyrics with racist words including "n*****," the source said. In Bieber's video, he sings "There'll be one less lonely n*****" and adds "If I kill you, I'll be part of the KKK." The source close to the singer added that the teen immediately realized his error and and told his mentors, singer Usher and actor Will Smith, about the video. Usher, who wrote "One Less Lonely Girl," showed Bieber some historically racist videos in an effort to teach him about the hurtful nature of such words, the source said. Now 20, Bieber reportedly wants to take full responsibility for his youthful actions. This latest video comes just days after Bieber apologized for another video in which the pop star, then 15, is seen making a racist joke. In that video, which was also posted on TMZ, Bieber asks, "Why are black people afraid of chain saws?" before answering his own question with the statement "Run n*****, n*****, n*****, n*****," imitating the sound of a chain saw. "As a young man, I didn't understand the power of certain words and how they can hurt. I thought it was OK to repeat hurtful words and jokes, but didn't realize at the time that it wasn't funny and that in fact my actions were continuing the ignorance," Bieber said in a statement after the release of the first video. "I take my friendships with people of all cultures very seriously, and I apologize for offending or hurting anyone with my childish and inexcusable mistake. I was a kid then and I am a man now who knows my responsibility to the world and to not make that mistake again." The source said that over the years, there have been various extortion attempts made with people demanding money from Bieber to not surface the videos. CNN's Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/travel/transformers-macau-venetian-exhibit/index.html	travel	Giant Transformers exhibit opens in Macau - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 01:05:54 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- China's passion for Transformer robots might not follow computer logic, but it's no secret. The stories are geek legends -- from repairmen building 20 giant autobots out of junk in a small village in Shandong to the true romantic who spent 10 months building an eight-meter-high Optimus Prime to propose to his girlfriend. Then there was the reality series that picked four Chinese actors for minor roles in the upcoming "Transformers 4: Age of Extinction," a good part of which is supposed to take place in China. It makes sense, therefore, that the Transformers 30th Anniversary Expo is being held in Macau this week. MORE: Paramount's first movie-themed resort to open in Dubai Running June 1 to October 5 at the Venetian Macao, the new Transformers Expo showcases more than a thousand toys and collectibles in 10 different zones of the resort's giant event space. Features include a replica of AllSpark (we're told it's the soul of a Transformer) and a laser grid to test visitors' sense of balance. There's also a 3D hologram and a seven-meter-tall likeness of Autobots leader Optimus Prime. A large number of the exhibits have been lent to the Expo by two "super collectors" from Hong Kong and Shanghai. For anyone hoping to build up their own battalion of robots in disguise, the Expo seems like a good place to start. Anniversary keepsake figurines of Optimus Prime, Grimlock, Starscream, Soundwave and Bumblebee have been produced just for the exhibition and are being sold on site. Those who want all five will have to keep coming back -- a different figurine is being sold every month. Transformers 30th Anniversary Expo, Cotai Expo Hall F, Venetian Macao, Macau; +853 2882 8888; June 1-October 5, 2014; 11 a.m.-8 p.m.; adults HK$100 ($13), children HK$80 ($10) Venetian Macao Transformers Package (includes a one-night stay at the resort and entry to the Transformers Expo) starts at HK$2,098 ($271) MORE: Best of Macau  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/travel/bahia-drums/index.html	travel	Are these the world's best drummers? - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 12:20:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Wander the historic streets of the Bahian capital of Salvador, and you're never far from one of the region's most moving traditions: its powerful rhythms. Whether it's the local axe pop music powered by freight-train percussion or street musicians and blocos afro pounding out hypnotic riffs, big beats power Bahia in a way they do nowhere else in Brazil, maybe even the world. A state on Brazil's coast, Bahia is the center of the country's Afro-Brazilian culture, and the heartbeat of that is the drum. The state is home to percussion ensembles such as Ile Aiye and Olodum, a group of several thousand members famed for their work with Paul Simon, that make Carnival in Salvador one of the top attractions in Brazil. Percussionist Carlinhos Brown rose from drumming on empty water bottles in the streets of a poor neighborhood in Salvador to become one of Brazil's top hit makers and artists, not to mention a judge on "The Voice Brasil." Brown founded the mostly percussion band Timbalada, a Carnival favorite, which takes its name from the conical hand drum known as a timbal. Saude! Ice-cold caipirinhas in Bahia Brash bashers "From the time kids here are very young, they play drums," says Gabi Guedes, one of Bahia's top percussionists. Guedes has played with fellow Bahiano Gilberto Gil and Margareth Menezes, as well as Jamaican reggae legend Jimmy Cliff, and is a member of Orkestra Rumpilezz, a 20-piece Afro-Brazilian group. "You hear all sorts of percussion growing up, all kinds of samba, samba afro, samba de roda," says Guedes. "All this music is connected to the drum. It's in the blood. It's passed down from the grandfathers." Like their grandfathers, Bahia's modern musicians are known for a brash style that mixes rhythms from around Brazil and the Caribbean. The hyperkinetic music style known as axe (pronounced "AH-shay"), which blends speed-pop with fiery Afro-Brazilian percussion, has produced pop superstars such as Ivete Sangalo, Daniela Mercury and Claudia Leitte. Samba reggae is another made-in-Bahia style that bends rhythmic traditions in a popular way. "Bahia is a rhythmic laboratory," says Chris McGowan, co-author of "The Brazilian Sound: Samba, Bossa Nova and the Popular Music of Brazil" and a just-released ebook of interviews with top Brazilian artists of the MPB (Musica Popular Brasileira) and bossa nova era, "The Brazilian Music Book." "It's a place where Afro-Brazilian rhythms and the latest sounds coming from the Caribbean and elsewhere are mixed together to create new danceable hybrids," says McGowan. "Samba, ijexa, reggae, rock, merengue, lambada, soca, salsa, zouk and other styles are energetically shaken and stirred together." Godly beats Drums are also at the heart of the Afro-Brazilian religious tradition of Candombl, which blends African beliefs with Catholic influences and has its origins in Salvador, where the first Candombl terreiro (house of worship) was founded. Candombl is widely practiced in Bahia and has followers throughout Brazil. In worship ceremonies, devotees commune with deities known as orixas through dance, chants, offerings and music rituals in which drumming plays a prominent role. The beat of tall, conga-like drums, and atabaques, a conical hand drum that comes in three sizes, calls forth the deities and creates a trance-like mood for encountering the divine. "The drum is very powerful to bring the orixas close to us," says Guedes, "and to help us worship them." Guedes got his percussion training as a youth in the Gantois house of Candombl, where he lived and studied with the most famous head priestess of Candombl, Mae Menininha, celebrated in songs by pop icons Caetano Veloso and Dorival Caymmi and whose fans included the writer Jorge Amado. Bloc parties Candombl also figures in another percussion-oriented tradition in Bahia, afoxe, a procession that brings Candombl music, songs and rhythms into the streets. Afoxe groups march to the beat of an ijexa rhythm tapped on atabaques, gongues (a double-bell agogo) and a gourd shaker familiar to African music also called afoxe. The most famous afoxe group, the Filhos de Gandhy, began parading at Carnival in the late 1940s, inspired by the nonviolence of Mahatma Gandhi. During Carnival in Brazil, people who aren't part of their city's featured parade form their own neighborhood groups, or blocos, so everyone can get in on the celebration. In the 1970s, a tradition of blocos afro, all Afro-Brazilian drumming groups, developed in Bahia, led by a bloco called Ile Aiye. Over the years Ile Aiye has grown to a couple thousand members, blazing a percussion trail of thundering bass drums (surdos) and tenor drums (repiques) with powerful songs about African roots and black pride. Today, the best-known bloco afro is Olodum, originally an all-percussion group based in the historic heart of Salvador in the Pelourinho district. The group has recorded a number of successful albums and touched off the samba-reggae style of music so popular in Bahia and across Brazil. If you're in Brazil and want to get closer to the real Bahian experience, the path is easy to find: Just follow the beat. Author of the book "Work to Live," Joe Robinson has written for numerous publications, including the Los Angeles Times. He's traveled extensively in Brazil.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/travel/aviation-douglas-dc-3/index.html	travel	One of history's longest flying airliners, the DC-3 nears 80 years old. - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 08:15:38 EDT 2014	CNN celebrates 100 years of commercial aviation with a week of programming presented by resident travel expert Richard Quest. (CNN) -- James Bond piloted a Douglas DC-3 airliner. Indiana Jones hopped a ride on one for his last crusade. This aviation icon even stars in a reality TV show. Almost 80 years after its introduction, a few hundred DC-3s are estimated to still be flying worldwide. That's kind of unbelievable in an age when dozens of younger types of airliners have already retired to aviation boneyards. "When we take them to air shows I watch people gravitate toward (them)," says Joe McBryan, co-star of History Channel's "Ice Pilots." McBryan owns Canada's Buffalo Airways and its six operating DC-3s. "People always have a story. They say their dad or grand-dad flew one ... or they flew on one when they were young." The DC-3 debuted in the mid-1930s as an aviation rock star. With its two powerful propeller engines it revolutionized the travel industry by cutting typical coast-to-coast flight time across the United States from 25 hours to just 18. Although it typically seated only about 21 passengers, the plane allowed airlines to make a giant leap toward profitability. Later a military version of the plane helped win World War II by dropping thousands of paratroopers during the D-Day invasion of France, 70 years ago this month. Result: The DC-3 has touched millions of lives. But what about this plane keeps it flying all these years later? Pilots will tell you the DC-3 won't quit because it was so well-built. Some say its design and rugged landing gear helped it touch down safely on short runways. A day in the life of the world's busiest airport But for McBryan -- age 70 and still flying almost daily -- it's about love. "You can choose your friends and coworkers but you can't choose the one you love. An airplane is the same. And in 1969, the DC-3 came and it stayed with me," McBryan says. During some of the coldest weather on the planet, McBryan's planes ferry tourists, hunters, adventurers and regional workers across Canada's remote Northwest Territories. The 45-minute DC-3 flights from Yellowknife across icy Great Slave Lake to Hay River are pretty basic. Passengers get no meals, no WiFi, no video. "There's coffee and cookies and juice," McBryan says. There is an alternative to in-flight entertainment: "A lot of passengers like the sound of the engine. It will lull you to sleep. It's a perfect sleeping noise." McBryan's son once said the engines sound like a "funeral procession for the Hell's Angels." On the flight deck, for McBryan, it's all about the plane's feel. These classic aircraft are controlled with a yoke connected directly by cables to the tail and wings. No fancy fly-by-wire electronics like newer airliners. No flashy heads-up displays for speed or altitude, either. An old fashioned instrument panel works just fine, thank you very much. "It's very comfortable," he says. "You're in your own nest. You have the ability to feel what the airplane's doing." 007 flies the Gooney Bird In 2008, a Gooney Bird helped James Bond get out of a jam. Fans of the Bond film "Quantum of Solace," may recall actor Daniel Craig in the cockpit of a beat-up DC-3. "Let's see if this thing will fly," Bond says in the film. Does it? Oh yeah. And then some. After takeoff, a super-fast jet fires on the Gooney Bird, forcing Bond to use the DC-3's slow speed to outwit the jet pilot. The jet winds up as a stain on a rocky mountainside. Chalk up a win for low and slow. Back in the 1980s, a DC-3 served another movie franchise hero. In "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade," Indy flies from New York to Newfoundland to the Azores and Europe on his quest for the Holy Grail. 50 spots, 50 states for 2014 Taildraggers Getting on board a DC-3 is an uphill climb. Literally. The plane's tail sits on the ground when it's not flying, forcing passengers to walk up a steeply inclined aisle to take their seats. "One of the most common comments I hear when some passengers come on board is, 'Wow, there's really an angle here,' " says Ric Hallquist, a longtime pilot for Missionary Flights International. Three times per week, Hallquist flies DC-3s loaded with cargo or passengers from South Florida to the Caribbean. In addition to passengers, Hallquist and his co-pilots have hauled horses, ATVs and pretty much any legal cargo they can fit through the aircraft door. The Gooney Bird's rugged landing gear with its big struts can handle rough runways in places like Haiti or the Dominican Republic, Hallquist says. "And the air frame is just so strong, it really is." But the plane can also be temperamental, especially for pilots without much DC-3 experience, says Catalina Air Boats pilot Robby Bolling, who flies a daily DC-3 cargo route from Long Beach, California, to Catalina Island, about 30 miles offshore. "You just have to respect it, not abuse it," says Bolling. "I kind of feel like I'm going back in time to the 1940s or '50s. flying these airplanes around." When the DC-3 flies, folks around the airport start shooting photos, Bolling says. "I always notice that. It's kind of like a rock star." Bolling fears the plane won't be around much longer. He says he'll miss it. Back in Yellowknife, ice pilot McBryan sees it differently. He believes the planes could easily fly for another 30 years "They keep making parts, so there won't be a shortage," says this son of a prospector. If anything stands in its way, McBryan says it will be a shortage of leaded fuel that his DC-3's engines burn. The environmentally hazardous leaded fuel is being phased out. But losing the DC-3 would be a shame, McBryan says. There's simply nothing else like it. The plane is about as near humans will get to growing wings. "Strap a DC-3 to your a** and let the wings extend out," he jokes. "That's the closest thing you will come to a human flying." Timeline: 100 years of commercial aviation  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/travel/poland-25-things-independence-irpt/index.html	travel	25 things we love about Poland - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 03:45:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's the land of Pope John Paul II, Frederic Chopin and really good cheese. To celebrate Poland's 25 years of independence, June 4, 2014, we asked readers to share their favorite things about the country. Don't pay attention to the outdated stereotypes. From gorgeous town squares to wise octogenarians to the uniquely Polish sense of humor, the list above is bound to make you start planning a trip to Poland this year. See all submissions for the best things about Poland in English and Polish via CNN iReport and Polish news network Kontakt24. CNN's Daphne Sashin, Christina Zdanowicz and Matthew Ponsford contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/travel/737-emergency-pilot/index.html	travel	Bomber pilot helped in airline cockpit during emergency - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 11:47:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It sounds like the plot from an old movie: airline crew members make this passenger announcement, "Is anyone on board a pilot?" That was the situation last December when Air Force Capt. Mark Gongol and his wife and daughter were traveling from Des Moines to Denver aboard a United Boeing 737. "I looked at my wife and she looked back at me and she said, 'I think you should ring the call button,'" Gongol told CNN on Tuesday. Gongol, who pilots B1B Lancer bombers, already could tell something was wrong. Flight attendants were rushing to the front of the aircraft. One was carrying a first-aid kit. When Gongol reached the cockpit, it was clear the captain was in trouble. Passengers and crew were helping him out of the cockpit. A cot had been set up. The captain looked pale and clammy from an apparent heart attack, Gongol remembered. Gongol stepped onto the flight deck and came eye to eye with the first officer. "There was a moment," he recalled. "We both had about five seconds to size each other up. She was wondering about my level of experience. Was I a Cessna driver -- or a professional pilot? "I wanted to make sure she was OK. I had a feeling she was -- she was better than OK. She had already made the decision to turn the plane toward the nearest airport." Gongol strapped himself in and did what he could to help get the plane to the airport in Omaha. Never taking the controls, Gongol acted as a backup for the first officer. He worked the radio, communicating with air traffic controllers -- updating them on the condition of the captain, passengers and the aircraft. Although he never suspected he would have to fly the plane, piloting a B1B bomber isn't too different from a 737, Gongol explained. "A plane is a plane," he said. "It's like the difference between driving a pickup truck, or a sedan. The same skills transfer." After landing, the airliner taxied as near a terminal gate as possible -- and ground crew maneuvered a rolling stairway to one of the plane's exits. The captain was rushed by ambulance for treatment. After Gongol and his family got off the aircraft, they simply "slinked out the back door," with the Air Force pilot feeling confident he'd done all he could to help. Gongol's story never surfaced until recently, when the Air Force received requests from news reporters. Later Gongol received some good news: the captain had survived -- and recovered. "The captain called me up a month or two later," Gongol remembered. "He said it was a really rotten event, but fortunately a lot of things fell into place." And what did Gongol's wife say after this memorable flight? "She said, 'Good job,'" Gongol laughed. "She's a woman of few words. She was happy that I was there." Passenger lands plane after pilot falls ill  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/travel/topless-tour/index.html	travel	Topless travel photos latest travel rage - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 03:03:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Irreverent? Obscene? Glorious? While some parts of the world are instituting bikini bans and campaigning for travelers to cover up, elsewhere, travelers are encouraging others to take it off on social media for everyone to see. What began as a spontaneous idea and Instagram post has sparked a stream of travelers to send in fun, topless photos -- taken from the back -- to be featured on the social media channels of the Topless Tour, which began as an Instagram project. Judging from the enthusiastic response and growing number of participants, there's something about posing topless that heightens the feeling of liberation and adventure while traveling. Japan's 'anti-loneliness cafe' goes viral How it started The Topless Tour was started two years ago by friends Olivia Edginton, 20, Lydia Buckler, 21, and Ingvild Marstein Olsen, 20, students at Trinity Laban Conservatoire of Music & Dance in London. After taking an impromptu topless dip in a cold lake in Olsen's hometown in Norway, the three friends wanted to capture the moment of freedom. "It simply just happened, no planning involved," Edginton wrote in an e-mail. They continued to travel and post similar photos throughout Europe and New York, all featuring themselves in topless poses against dramatic backgrounds. Then they called for others to send in their topless photos from around the world. From Idaho to Cape Town to Thailand, the mildly salacious images poured in. Among the more amazing submissions: a woman skydiving topless in the Swiss Alps. More to come The Topless Tour currently has nearly 20,000 followers on Instagram. That number is increasing quickly as the trio and a growing community continue to document their travels with bare backs. Although the topless photos come predominantly from women, many men have submitted as well. "We never imagined it would have such global reach and appreciation," Edginton said. "It was always just something we would hope would catch on, never really thinking it would happen." For the trio leading the Tour, the best part of the experience has been hearing people's stories from all over the globe, and how the project has helped people "feel themselves again, be proud of who they are and love their beautiful bodies," said Edginton. "One of our followers recently said these lovely words: 'All that pressure and judging went away. And so did my shirt. I felt free, happy, and me.' " How to take good Instagram photos when you travel  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/travel/a-century-of-commercial-flight/index.html	travel	It started in a flying boat ... a century of commercial aviation - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 06:56:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Viewing this on a mobile device? Go here for the mobile version.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/living/bad-bride-behavior-matrimony/index.html	living	11 ways to be a terrible bride - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 05:22:49 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Your wedding planner is there to help you bring your dream wedding to life. That said, a wedding planner is not your personal assistant or your family therapist -- even if some brides believe that's part of the job description. Of course, planners can't tell their clients they're acting like a bridezilla, but they can tell us! Here, wedding planners reveal the things they don't have the heart to say to your face. Take notes, ladies. Brides: The most flattering wedding dress for your body type 1. "We want you to make your own decisions. This is your wedding. Yes, flexible couples are the dream to any planner but indecisive clients can be a nightmare. It makes both of our roles so much more difficult when a client can't make a single decision without us. The perfect combination is a nice collaboration of ideas." -- Celebrity event designer Brett Galley from Hollywood POP 2. "You are not a professional event planner so please stop acting like you know everything about weddings after reading two blog articles and surfing Pinterest." -- Event planner Shimona Mayo, author of "Power Plays for Brides" Brides: Kim Kardashian's wedding dress: 11 fantasy sketches 3. "I cannot be your secret-bearer. If you want to lie to your family about wedding costs, do so on your own and leave me out of it!" -- Celebrity wedding planner Donnie Brown of Donnie Brown Weddings and Events 4. "Our contract clearly outlines what we have offered to assist you with. We often go above and beyond this, but sometimes you take advantage. We are not your personal assistants."-- Mindy Home, senior events manager at AE Events Brides: The most creative wedding cakes of the year 5. "I'm not your friend, I'm your wedding planner. Don't call me to cry about fights with your bridesmaids or the groom. If it's a real problem, email me to schedule a conference call. But share your personal trials and tribulations with your mother and maid of honor. I'm not being paid to hear the details about how badly behaved some of your wedding party and family are prior to arrival unless you think they're going to misbehave at the actual wedding. The only reason to call me after 9 p.m. without a prescheduled call is if the groom is on fire and if you are getting married next week." -- Professional wedding planner Sandy Malone of Weddings in Vieques 6. "We cannot stop time, create more time or get your time back. We'd love it if we could! We give you deadlines for a reason. If they aren't followed, unfortunately you may lose time, lose a vendor or incur rush fees."-- Sojourner Auguste, owner of Erganic Design Brides: Gorgeous plus-size wedding dresses 7. "Don't get hyper focused on certain layout details. Where your cake table goes or what side the favor box is on is not something that you need to stress about. Many times wedding planners make game day decisions on layout and you, and especially your guests, will never know the difference. Let the wedding planner worry about the minutiae." -- Robyn Bruns, president of Red Letter Event Planning 8. "Do not call, text and email on the same issue within a short timespan. I usually have a rapid fast response time and my clients know this, but they should also know that I can't respond when I am meeting with another client or vendor. Leaving a voicemail and then following up five minutes later with an email to say, 'I left you a voice mail" and then a text that says, "Please check your voice mail' 10 minutes after that doesn't help you get a response sooner." -- Tracie Domino, founder and creative director of Tracie Domino Events Brides: Expecting (and engaged!) celebrities 9. "Wedding planners and designers don't make as much money as you think. This job is a labor of love. Sometimes when someone asks about the cost of my services their eyes get big and I hear, 'Oh you're rich.' What you have to take into account are how many hours I have to work in order to earn my fee. I pay for my gas, overhead, health insurance, staff. In other words, I am an independent contractor. Most weddings I plan are at least 12 months away. So in order to get a better idea of how much I make, take my fee and divide that by 365 days." -- Certified green event designer Veronica Cole 10. "A wedding theme is just that, one theme! Not a whole mix match of Pinterest concepts all mashed together. There is such a thing as too much." -- Matiana Mitchell of Matiana Mitchell Designs Brides: The most beautiful honeymoon destinations  11. "Unless he wants to go, don't drag your fianc to all of your appointments (and be OK with it!)" -- Gabriela Solano, wedding planner at VIDA Floral and florist on BloomNation.com Is there something you're dying to tell a badly behaved bride? Let it out in the comments below, on CNN Living's Facebook page or on Twitter @CNNLiving!  Reprinted with permission of Conde Nast. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/living/bounce-house-safety-parents/index.html	living	How to keep a child safe in a bounce house - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 11:52:42 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- If you have children, you know bounce houses (or bouncy houses, as we call them at home) are about as universally loved by kids as ice cream cones on a summer day and gobs of candy on Halloween. See bounce house, run toward it: That pretty much sums up the experience of most toddlers and elementary schoolers. But for some parents, like this reporter, the feeling about these inflatables is more along the lines of "accident waiting to happen." That is why the news of the bounce house that was swept away by a wind gust in South Glens Falls, New York, a few weeks back got my attention and the attention of so many other parents. It climbed as high as 20 feet in the air and seriously injured two boys, ages 5 and 6, who were playing inside. Then this weekend, another incident. This time, the scene was Littleton, Colorado, where a bouncy slide was blown between 200 and 300 feet, tossing around two children who were playing on it. Thankfully, the kids are OK. Two dramatic incidents in a short period of time combined with a report that injuries related to bounce houses have skyrocketed in recent years make you wonder whether to run away when you see an inflatable in the distance, especially if your child hasn't spotted it yet. Is there anything parents can do, other than imposing a ban on bouncing? For some answers, we reached out to two industry experts who work regularly with inflatables. One runs a company providing entertainment, including bounce houses, across the country. The other works at a nonprofit focusing on training people to certify rides and ride operators. Parents don't have to rule out bounce house fun, they say -- but they do need to take steps to keep kids safe. Ted Amberg is chief executive officer of Amberg Entertainment, a Missouri-based company that supplies entertainment for business, school and church events in 22 states. He also gives lectures and consults with companies across the country on safety issues. The key for parents, Amberg says, is "understanding and being aware of the three Ws of bounce house safety ... weather, workers and warranty." Three Ws for bounce house safety: weather  Wind is "the number one enemy" of an inflatable and can cause it to become dangerous, he said. Wind also appears to have been a factor in the two recent incidents where the bounce houses blew away. Most manufacturers recommend removing children from bounce houses and/or deflating them when winds are 20 to 25 miles per hour or higher, Amberg said. "Obviously, most parents aren't going to have a wind gauge on them, so I have an easy rule of thumb for people. ... When your pants are flapping like a flag, that is a really good, simple indicator to understand, 'Hey, the winds are picking up.' " Sure, the kids might cry when you tell them they need to come out of the bounce house, but tears are preferable to an incident, adds Amberg, who is a parent himself. The second W: workers  The second "W" stands for workers, the people who are operating the bounce house. Amberg says a lot of people, especially some of the newer operators who have just gotten into the business, don't understand how the inflatable should be anchored to the ground. "They are using 4- or 5-inch plastic stakes," he said, whereas his operators would use "30- to 40-inch heavy-duty metal" ones. "It's lack of judgment that almost always causes the problem, not using proper anchoring or not monitoring the situation." Which leads to another piece of advice: Parents should make sure there is an operator present at the bounce house. "You wouldn't let your kid more than likely go on a roller coaster if it does not have an attendant," he said. "You probably wouldn't let your kid go in the swimming pool unattended. So why would you let your kid get into a bounce house or a slide or any inflatable" that is unattended? Parents should also make sure operators are focusing on what's happening inside the bounce house, not outside, said Laura Woodburn, spokeswoman for the National Association of Amusement Ride Safety Officials, a nonprofit that educates and certifies people to conduct amusement ride and operator inspections. Woodburn said that only kids of the same size should be inside together and that most inflatables will have rules stitched on the outside detailing the maximum occupancy. It's "usually plainly obvious what those rules are," Woodburn said. Parents need to watch what's happening too, especially if they rent a bounce house themselves, Amberg said. "Inflatables aren't baby sitters. Sometimes, people look at it that way. 'Oh, let's toss the kids in the backyard.' "It's kind of like the swimming pool. You're not going to leave that unsupervised. You should never leave an inflatable unsupervised." The final W: warranty The final "W" stands for warranty, encouraging parents to ask the operator to see the company's current insurance policy and state inspections. Now, this gets somewhat complicated. There are no national inspection guidelines or regulations for bounce houses. Inspections are left up to the states. Some have thorough inspection programs, and some have none at all, said Amberg, but parents can inquire with the operator or the manufacturer to learn about inspections to the bounce houses and to get more of a sense of a company's reputation. There is no question that more kids are getting inured from bounce houses, as CNN reported in 2012. A few years ago, Dr. Gary Smith of Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, launched the first study to examine bounce house-related injuries, and he found that injuries jumped 1,500% between 1995 and 2010. In 2010, 31 children were treated in emergency departments each day on average, which works out to about one child every 45 minutes, Smith said. Part of the reason for the jump, says Woodburn, is because there are a lot more bounce houses today and a lot more rentals at people's houses than 10 years ago. "More people are on the devices, so that might lend itself to more injuries," she said. Amberg suggests there are also more bounce house operators "who don't know what they're doing." But if parents use common sense and remember those three Ws, weather, workers and warranty, they will go a long way toward helping make the bounce house "as fun and safe as it's intended to be," Amberg said. Of course, there's always another approach: counting the days until your children are too big -- or too cool -- for them. Do you worry about your child playing in a bounce house? Share your thoughts in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/04/living/google-doodles-diversity/index.html	living	Google Doodles team makes strides toward diversity pledge - CNN.com	2014/06/04	Wednesday Jun 4 05:57:31 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Google executive Megan Smith heard about a report in March analyzing a lack of diversity in Google Doodles, her reaction was not what you might expect. An accounting of 445 people honored in Google Doodles from 2010 to 2013 found that 62% were white men. Women accounted for about 17%, and women of color just 4%, according to the analysis by SPARK Movement, a girls advocacy group. The report was picked up by news outlets worldwide and confirmed what advocacy groups and Doodle-watchers had known for a long time. But Smith, an 11-year veteran of the tech giant, saw the findings in a positive light. "I was excited because we had already solved the problem," said Smith, vice president of Google(X). SPARK did not know it at the time, but Google's Doodle team had been talking for years about the diversity problem in the beloved illustrations on Google homepages seen around the world. In phone calls and a Google+ hangout with SPARK members after the report's release, Smith revealed that the Doodles team was actively working to balance gender representation in 2014. "We've been trying to go against inertia and be more fair and representative of the users we serve, which is everybody," said Ryan Germick, Google's Doodle Team lead, which is composed of five men and five women. Had the SPARK report included figures from 2014, it would have shown an upward trend toward gender balance. As of June 2, women made up 49% of the 51 Doodles around the world, according to updated figures provided to CNN by SPARK member Celeste Montao, who led the initial research. So far in 2014, white people have made up 67% of Doodles, Montao said, and people of color 33%, or 17 people, putting them on track to outpace 2013 figures. It's a battle Google and the tech industry are waging on multiple fronts. Last week, Google released workplace demographics in its first public diversity report, showing that women made up 30% of all Google employees and whites made up 61%. "We're not where we want to be when it comes to diversity. And it is hard to address these kinds of challenges if you're not prepared to discuss them openly, and with the facts," Google said in a report on its website. "All of our efforts, including going public with these numbers, are designed to help us recruit and develop the world's most talented and diverse people." Google is working to attract more women and nonwhites to its ranks through a number of initiatives, Smith said, without commenting directly on the report. Part of the work is increasing visibility of women and people of color in all walks of life, which is where Smith believes Google Doodles can play a role. Shedding our 'unconscious bias' Part of the diversity problem in Doodles came from that "unconscious bias" that history has toward women, Smith said. Women, especially those in science, technology and mathematics, are often missing from history's major canons, or even on the top 100 lists proliferating the Internet. "It's becoming conscious of the unconscious biases we have," Smith said. "Even if you didn't create the problem, once you become aware of it you can debug it and solve it. You can become part of the solution." It fell on the Doodle team to dig deeper, Germick said. Most Doodles are conceived months in advance from a long list of suggestions from the public, within Google and from the team itself. Most are tied to events or milestones, such as someone's birthday or the anniversary of an event or invention. Other times, they get creative, like when they could not find Harriet Tubman's birthdate but still decided to run her illustration in February. "We try to be fun, surprising and delightful, but we recognize we have an opportunity to help in some tiny, tiny way to shine lights on things and people worth shining a light on," he said. "Having an inclusive stance on that is right thing to do." Others who keep an eye out for equitable representation in Google Doodle also began to notice an increase in females. Blogger Ann Martin, who has tracked the number of women in Google doodles since November 2011, corroborated SPARK's findings. In fact, the number of female doodles on the Google homepage in the United States is higher than other countries, around 80%, she said. Martin, a postdoctoral fellow in Virginia who has a doctorate in astronomy, started the blog "Speaking Up" as a graduate student. She was frustrated with the lack of representation of women in STEM fields in Google Doodles. When she started the blog, only seven women had been honored on the Google homepage in the United States, she said: Martha Graham, Lucille Ball, Mary Blair, Marie Curie, Frida Kahlo, Mary Cassatt and Beatrix Potter. "Even though there is more work to be done, it's certainly encouraging that the list is too long now for me to rattle off," she said. From the start, she acknowledged that "history has its own bias" but insisted on holding Google to a higher standard. "As a woman in a STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) career, I have great respect for technological innovation and for the work Google does in the world. That is why it is so disappointing to me that you have not taken the opportunity to use your world stage to highlight women's contributions to creativity and innovation," she said in an open letter to Google in 2011. Google's expansive platform also came to mind when members of SPARK were brainstorming 2014 campaigns. They wanted to highlight how women and people of color are left out of the world's public spaces, from the names of street signs and buildings to schools and public monuments. It was an international issue, which brought to mind one of the world's few shared spaces, Google's homepage, SPARK Executive Director Dana Edell said. "It's one space that is the whole world's global town center," Edell said. "Everyone walks through it everyday." The issue struck a nerve with SPARK member Montao. She realized that even as a Mexican-American college student, she could name "dozens upon dozens" of rich white men in history, "but it was difficult for me to think of more than a few women or people of color," the 20-year-old UCLA student said. "I couldn't believe that throughout elementary, middle, and high school, the subject never came up," she said. "I've grown more and more irritated that I spent years learning about all the amazing stuff that white men have done, without ever hearing about people like me. "And, when you only hear about other people's greatness, how are you supposed to believe that you can do the same?" The role of media  That very question has been at the heart of Google's efforts to increase diversity in the doodles, said Smith, the Google engineer. She hopes to change that through Doodles and other initiatives she has been spearheading in recent years. It matters because the coming years will bring more high-paying jobs in STEM fields and not enough qualified applicants to fill them if we maintain the status quo, she said. "We have tremendous problems in the world, and we need anybody who has great ideas to work on solving them," she said. Her passion for the topic was sparked by research from the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media, which researches gender portrayals of women in media. Smith was struck by statistics showing that even though women comprised 47% of the U.S. labor force in 2011, they only held 20.3% of the total onscreen occupations in family films and 34.4% of all jobs in prime-time programs. A similar imbalance prevailed in depictions of people in STEM careers in family films and prime-time shows, according to the 2012 report, "Gender Roles and Occupations: A Look at Character Attributes and Job-Related Aspirations in Film and Television." Male and female TV characters were most likely to hold jobs in the life/physical sciences than in other STEM careers, even though computer science and mathematics comprise the largest percentage of the U.S. STEM workforce, the report says. Males were almost four times as likely as females to be shown on screen in this line of work in family films and 2.6 times as likely in prime time. The ratio of males to females computer science and engineering jobs is 14.25 to 1 in family films and 5.4 to 1 in prime time. In reality, however, the scales are slightly more balanced, even among Google's ranks. Google's own reporting shows that 30% of all employees are women, making up 17% of Google's engineers and 21% of the company's leadership. "By having this imbalance or misrepresentation of who does this heroic technical work, it discourages people from joining who really might have critical answers for solving the major problems of our time," Smith said. As Smith dug deeper, she found the contributions of women being downplayed throughout her field, from the six young women who programmed the ENIAC, the first all-electronic, programmable computer for the U.S. Army, to Katherine Johnson, a mathematics professor who calculated trajectories for astronauts Alan Shepard and John Glenn on the Apollo Mission. To help increase the visibility of women and minorities, Google makes sure to include them whenever the company has a public platform, presentation or meet-up, Smith said. She also started the group "Women Techmakers" to bring visibility and resources to technical women in those platforms. Google also awarded a $1.2 million Google Global Impact grant to the The Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media to further its research on gender depiction in entertainment programming for children, with a focus on STEM careers. Reaching out to Hollywood is key to increasing diversity to change the prevailing nerd and boys club stereotypes that permeate pop culture. Smith does this by participating in panels and workshops hosted by The Geena Davis Institute and others to share her experienced as a woman in STEM. "It's a huge priority for [Google] because we see from all these studies how that best products come from most diverse teams," she said. Others outside of Google recognize the role Doodles can play, too. They take heart in Google's efforts so far and hope the company keeps it up. "From my perspective, equitable gender representation is a worthwhile effort. There's nothing to lose, and a lot to gain," Martin said. "This isn't really about the absolute level of difficulty. What is required is a dedicated and conscious effort to seek out and include diverse creators and innovators. The biases of history and our society are working against you, and counteracting that requires thoughtful dedication." Who would you like to see honored in a Google Doodle? Share your suggestions in the comments or on CNN Living's Facebook page or Twitter.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/living/how-to-overcome-shyness-relate-real-simple/index.html	living	How to overcome shyness - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 08:14:19 EDT 2014	(RealSimple.com) -- Hi. My name is Sarah, and I'm a reporter, so you wouldn't think that I would hesitate at all talking to people at parties. But I'm shy, too. And I have been since I was a kid. Genes may have something to do with my shyness. People with different genotypes on average tend to have different levels of social anxiety, says Scott F. Stoltenberg, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, who has conducted recent research on the topic. But environmental factors count more: We take cues from our parents. We suffer if we're bullied. Even the bold can become shy when faced with certain challenges, like a job loss or a rejection, says Anne Marie Albano, a clinical psychologist and the director of the Columbia University Clinic for Anxiety and Related Disorders, in New York City. Half the people in the United States say that they're shy to some degree, according to Philip Zimbardo, a professor emeritus at Stanford University and a pioneer in research on shyness. He and other experts think of sociability along a spectrum, with one end being, essentially, "I live for parties" and the other, "Leave me alone -- forever." I fall somewhere in between. There are worse things in life, of course, but I would love never having to feel awkward in social situations again. Plus, it has always been a little too easy for me to talk myself into staying home instead of going out. Experts say that every time a shy person avoids a social event, her anxiety may grow, and it won't be any easier to feel confident the next time around. "People think that social confidence is just something people have," says Lynne Henderson, a clinical psychologist and the director of the Shyness Institute, in Berkeley, California. "But it's something you build by repeatedly putting yourself in social situations." RealSimple.com: 5 Phrases That Should Be Banned From the English Language That's why I decided to put myself through a self-designed boot camp. For four weeks, I read self-help books and was coached by the foremost experts on shyness. Then I took their advice to get-togethers, the running path, and even the stage. The challenge proved to be just that -- a challenge. But it also worked, as it may for those of you who are shy and willing to try your own version of the program. Here's what I learned. Lesson No.1: Every Sentence Coming Out of Your Mouth Isn't Going to Make Sense; Accept It "Many shy, socially anxious people report the fear of being unable to make a desired impression on others," says Barry Schlenker, a professor emeritus of psychology at the University of Florida, in Gainesville, who has done extensive research on social anxiety. Shy people often appear to others as socially competent, but for whatever reason (unrealistic personal standards, a lack of confidence), they can't see it themselves. Shy people also tend to believe that when they inevitably fail to come across well, they'll suffer unpleasant consequences, including shame, because of it. It's no wonder, then, that they tend to clam up in large gatherings. Instead, says Henderson, they should try to "bumble freely," to realize that it's OK to lose their train of thought or forget a person's name. While there's no magic switch to change the way you view your social interactions, you can make a conscious effort to talk more often and to deliberately edit your self-judgments afterward. Pretend to be your best friend. When you're being hard on yourself, ask, "What would she say to me?" Lesson in action: To practice speaking spontaneously, I enroll in a class at the Peoples Improv Theater, in New York City. Improv helps, experts say, because it calls for a zero-tolerance policy for perfectionism. The scenes move so quickly that mistakes are inevitable, even for the most experienced performers. Plus, says Tom Yorton, the CEO of Second City Communications, a company that uses improv to build communication skills in corporate employees, participants "focus less on judging themselves and more on creating a connection with others." At first, every new exercise makes me nervous, and about half the scenes that I'm in are total busts, filled with awkward pauses and topics that fizzle. One in particular, about a trip to the beach, ends with a lame "Well, it was good to see you." Later I catch myself fixating on failures. But rather than wallowing, I remember that messing up is no big deal, and that everyone else did it, too. By the third week, I feel more relaxed and realize that the more mistakes I make -- and I make a lot -- the less each one seems to matter. RealSimple.com: 5 Ways to Stay Cool Under Pressure Lesson No. 2: The Word No Is a Major No  The most important rule of improv (and a good guideline for life) is this: Say "yes, and..." instead of "no." In other words, agree rather than argue. Compliment, don't insult. The theory, says Yorton, is that "the notion of 'no,' whether spoken in improv or in work and social situations, creates a barrier. It closes off possibilities instead of opening up new ones. If you affirm what the other person is saying and build upon it, there's unlimited growth potential." But why does this practice build confidence? "Because it feels empowering to acknowledge and validate others, to be someone who is helpful and giving," say Yorton. Lesson in action: A week into my experiment, while on a run, I bump into another jogger, a friend of my husband's. My initial instinct is to tell him to go on ahead; I'm self-conscious about how slowly I run. But that would essentially be saying no, which is counter to the rules, so I keep running with him. We start chatting, and he tells me that from a distance, he thought I was someone else. I'm a little put off by the comparison to this person, but I don't let it faze me, and we move on to other topics, such as work and a play that he acted in. The run breezes by so quickly that I almost don't notice how well the improv rules worked. RealSimple.com: How to Make Positive Changes in Your Life Lesson No. 3: The Eyes Are the Window to a Good Conversation Recent data analysis by Quantified Impressions, a communication-analytics company based in Austin, Texas, suggests that in order to forge an emotional and meaningful connection before or during a conversation, you need to engage in eye contact for 60 to 70 % of the interaction. What's more, eye contact increases a person's likelihood of participating in a conversation, according to a 2002 study at Queen's University, in Ontario, Canada. "If three people sit down for coffee and one person isn't being looked at, that person is less likely to talk," says Briar Goldberg, the director of feedback at Quantified Impressions. "Your level of eye contact lets the other person know that you're interested in them and that they should feel comfortable continuing on with the conversation." Lesson in action: I show up at a weekly swing dance, where the only way to participate is to ask someone to be my partner. I've been trying to convince myself to go to this event for months. (I take group swing-dance classes.) But I haven't been able to work up the nerve. But now that I have a plan, I feel more self-assured. After scanning the room, I spot a potential partner and try to catch his gaze. When he looks my way, I walk over to him and ask him to dance, and just like that we're out on the floor. The trick winds up landing me partner after partner. In fact, I'm so encouraged, I come back to the dance twice more over the next month. RealSimple.com: How to Tell if Someone is Lying Lesson No. 4: You -- Yes, You -- Make for an Interesting Conversation Topic Shy people often hesitate to talk about themselves for fear of seeming boring or being judged, says Deborah C. Beidel, a professor of psychology at the University of Central Florida, in Orlando. But that just makes it hard for them to keep a conversation going. As Alan Garner, a communications expert, writes in his book "Conversationally Speaking," "The people you meet want to know about you, too." If you don't share, the person you're talking to might conclude that you really aren't interested in making a connection. What's more, if you keep pelting someone with questions without offering any statements, you force the other person to do all the talking. "The general spirit of the principle," says Yorton, "is don't put the burden on other people to carry all the freight." Conversations should be symmetrical. People typically self-disclose at the same rate, writes Garner, who also offers instructions for doing so without appearing self-absorbed: When you ask questions and receive responses, "attempt to link those responses to your own knowledge and experiences." In other words, don't start randomly spouting facts about your dating life or job, as some shy people do when their nerves get the best of them. Lesson in action: At a clothing swap about three weeks into my experiment, an acquaintance says that she didn't realize I was still in New York. Instead of just confirming that I'm still in town and leaving it at that, I share a little about how crazy the last year has been. (I got married, my husband quit his job, and my mother-in-law had major surgery.) And by the time we're leaving, we're making plans to get coffee. I also make it a point to chat with the barista at my new favorite coffee spot whenever I go in. We don't talk about anything special. I just ask him how he's doing and tell him a bit about my day in return. Then, one afternoon, he tells me that this time my coffee is on him. It's the first time that has ever happened to me, and it feels like a victory. RealSimple.com: 5 Types of Friends Everyone Should Have Lesson No. 5: Curb Anxiety by Admitting That You Have It According to a 2012 study published in Psychological Science, putting a negative emotion into words (that is, labeling it) can lessen that emotion's severity. When subjects who were all fearful of spiders were asked to approach a large, live tarantula, those who had previously expressed their emotions out loud were able to get closer to the arachnid than were those who had kept their fright to themselves. This tactic may work for social anxiety, too. In fact, says Henderson, saying that you're shy is sometimes one of the easiest ways to relax about it. There are a few theories as to why. One is that a single region of the brain, the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, seems to handle both the labeling and the regulation of emotional responses, says Katharina Kircanski, a postdoctoral fellow in the department of psychology at Stanford University and a coauthor of the study. Zero in on one and the other will follow. The benefits of mindfulness could also be at play. "Verbalizing that you're afraid may help you notice your feelings in the present moment, rather than trying to push them away, which can sometimes create even more distress," says Kircanski. Lesson in action: It's been four weeks since I started my boot camp, and my improv class is preparing a show. The thought of inviting my friends immediately makes me nervous, but I e-mail them anyway and make it a point to tell them how I'm feeling. Just admitting it calms me down. One friend writes that she thinks that I'm "ridiculously brave." Another says that what I'm doing is "sort of a nightmare" of hers. Hearing that reassures me even more. When the day of the performance arrives, I sneak a peek at my pals in the audience. I realize that if I mess up, it just doesn't matter, and my friends are not going to think less of me. It's exactly how a socially confident person would feel. And it feels great. RealSimple.com: 5 Ways to Win People Over  Get a FREE TRIAL issue of Real Simple - CLICK HERE! Copyright  2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2012/11/30/living/native-american-fashion-appropriation/index.html	living	Why Native American designers are not OK with fashion headdresses - CNN.com	2012/11/30	Friday Nov 30 03:50:22 EST 2012	Editor's note: This story was originally published in November 2012 following several high profile incidents of appropriation of Native American culture. We're resurfacing now after negative reaction emerged to Elle UK's recent cover photo, which features entertainer Pharrell Williams in a feathered headdress. (CNN) -- This November, events nationwide celebrated the traditions, fashion and food of the nation's 566 recognized Indian tribes as part of Native American Heritage Month. But a few high profile missteps surrounding the use of indigenous cultural imagery made bigger national headlines than any heritage month event. First it was the release of No Doubt's Wild West-themed music video "Looking Hot," featuring teepees, fire dances and singer Gwen Stefani on horseback, a feather crowning her long blond braids. Then, supermodel Karlie Kloss walked the runway in a floor-length feather headdress, skimpy leopard-spotted bikini and turquoise jewelry at the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. Both instances sparked allegations of "playing Indian" for profit, leading No Doubt and Victoria's Secret to publicly apologize. The gaffes also reignited debate over where to draw the line between cultural appropriation and appreciation and the extent to which non-Natives should represent Natives in mainstream media and pop culture. RELATED: Native American fashion goes "Beyond Buckskin" and headdresses The conversation is important, because acts of cultural appropriation are not simply isolated incidents of "hipsters in Navajo panties and pop stars in headdresses," said Sasha Houston Brown, a member of the Santee Sioux Nation of Nebraska. They are byproducts of "systemic racism" that perpetuate the idea that there's no such thing as contemporary Native culture. "Despite what dominant society and mainstream media say, Native culture is a vibrant and living culture. We are not a relic of the past, a theme or a trend, we are not a style or costume, we are not mascots, noble savages or romantic fictional entities," Brown said in an editorial for the blog Racialious, "Nothing Says Native American Heritage Month Like White Girls in Headdresses." It's a discussion that is especially vital as the holiday season of mass consumerism kicks off, she said. The goal is not to ban from the marketplace beaded jewelry or clothing incorporating tribal motifs, Brown said, but to involve Natives in their creation, marketing and profits. "Collaborations can work as long as the dynamics at hand are empowering Native artists and designers so they are actually able to participate in an equitable manner," said Brown, who advises American Indian students at the Minneapolis Community and Technical College. As the American-Indian and Alaska Native community, which numbers 5.1 million and makes up about 1.6% of the population of the United States, works toward getting a stronger voice in mainstream media, it needs allies, including non-Natives, she said. "What an ally does is support and help communicate the message of Native artists and entrepreneurs instead of speaking for them," Brown said. "There's a huge market for Native and non-Native partnerships, but there's also an inherent distrust of non-Natives coming into communities because of the examples that have been set in history. It just takes time." A good ally is hard to find The ingredients of a mutually beneficial collaboration can be hard to nail down. Budding entrepreneur Mac Bishop knows how hard it is to toe that line as a non-Native. Born and raised in Portland, Oregon, the 23-year-old doesn't have any Native American ancestry. But, as a descendant of the Pendleton Wool family, which owns one of the country's longest-running wool mills, famous for its Native-inspired blankets, he grew up with a strong interest in the culture and close ties to the community. Opinion: Just say no to "playing Indian" He was a sophomore at Cornell University in 2009 when he decided to launch a "social business" that celebrated Native American culture through apparel and art. It was around the time Native-inspired clothing was showing up on runways and in the pages of fashion magazines. But Bishop insists he wasn't trying to ride a trend. He wanted NATIVE(X) to showcase products that told a story. He began with a pair of wool shorts made from Pendleton's "Chief Joseph" patterned fabric, named for the Nez Perce leader who resisted orders from the U.S. government to move his band onto a reservation. A few fashion blogs picked up on the "Chief Joe" shorts and Bishop ran Facebook ads targeted at users of Native American-related fan pages. Not everyone was happy about it. When Caleb Dunlap, an Ojibwe from Northern Minnesota's Lake Superior Band, realized Bishop was not Native, Dunlap began posting comments on Bishop's Facebook page accusing him of exploiting indigenous culture for financial gain. "For me, it was like, 'Who is this guy who had the money to go to Cornell and start his own company? Why is he taking this Pendleton-looking stuff and making it into shorts? Be smarter, do your own thing,' " he said. "I wanted to convey to him that a Native person should be doing this." A spirited exchange followed the wall posts, with Dunlap questioning Bishop's motives and Bishop insisting he was exploring a sincere interest in Native culture with altruistic goals in mind. After that, the two didn't speak for nearly two years until Bishop contacted him after launching his website with a new perspective. "I was naive in thinking I could build cultural awareness without that culture's involvement," Bishop said. "That conversation helped expose me to how controversial this could be and opened my eyes to the Native perspective on what's going on in the fashion industry." Why it matters to Natives Collaborations between natives and non-Natives can work, like when Nike teamed up with Pawnee artist Bunky Echo-Hawk on its N7 line. The collection, which was developed by a Nike employee of American Indian heritage, creates sportswear with a Native aesthetic to fund athletic programs in Indian country. Echo-Hawk said he had concerns about working for a large corporation. But after learning of its philanthropic goals, it was a no-brainer. "The whole line is really steeped in the Native philosophy and tradition of giving back to the community so it was an opportunity I was really proud to be a part of," said Echo-Hawk, who is still a design consultant for N7. "The fact they felt like they needed to work with a Native artist won a lot of respect from me because most corporations don't do that. They grab some clip art or culturally protected images that are sacred to us and put them on panties." He knows that outsiders still may not see what the big deal is. Who wouldn't want a personal visit from a Victoria's Secret model in a headdress? It matters because what some see as a beautiful geometric print is sacred imagery with a deeper cultural and religious significance, he said, like the Christian cross or star of David. Plus, the community is still reeling from the effects of colonialism, he said. "This country is really young and what may seem to a lot of people like ancient history is really recent history to us. We're just a few generations removed from our freedom," he said. "It's all we have left and it's like we're being picked apart by vultures. It's something we feel like we have to protect and celebrate. It's our identity." Thanks to the Internet, it's easier than ever to find hoodies and T-shirts with sleek variations on Northwest Coastal designs, hand-sewn moccasins or silver and turquoise jewelry -- all by real Native artists. Turtle Mountain Chippewa Jessica R. Metcalfe started the blog Beyond Buckskin to promote Native artists and designers. This summer, she expanded the platform to an e-commerce site featuring products made by Native Americans where you'll find "hipsters in headdresses" bowties, but no headdresses, said Metcalfe, who has a Ph.D. in American Indian Studies from the University of Arizona. In contrast, most Americans probably get their Native-inspired looks from the likes of Proezna Schouler, Forever 21 or, until recently, Urban Outfitters. Last October, Brown wrote an open letter asking the company's CEO to pull its "Navajo" collection, which included the infamous "Navajo hipster panty" and flask. A Change.org petition followed, along with a cease-and-desist order from the Navajo Nation, ultimately leading to the removal of all "Navajo" references in product descriptions, though a trademark lawsuit is still winding through the courts. Each step forward seems to be followed by another gaffe. In September, apparel maker Paul Frank Industries drew ire for throwing a "neon-Native American powwow" on Fashion's Night Out called "Dream Catching with Paul Frank." Images of the brand's iconic monkey in war paint and headdress plastered the walls as similarly dressed employees photographed guests with tomahawks and bow-and-arrow sets, according to the Hollywood Reporter. Guests had a choice of drinks with names like "Rain Dance Refresher," "Dream Catcher" and "Neon Teepee." "We have sophisticated tribal governments and communities, but how will we be able to be seen as modern, successful people if we are continually represented through plastic tomahawks and feathers?" Native Appropriations blogger Adrienne Keene said in an open letter to Paul Frank Industries and the agency that threw the party. The company removed photos of the party from its Facebook page and issued an apology. A few days later, the president of Paul Frank Industries contacted Keene to discuss ways of rectifying the situation, from design collaborations to a panel on the use of Native Imagery, in what the blogger deemed a rare gesture of collaboration. Building mutually beneficial relationships After some initial hiccups, NATIVE(X) founder Mac Bishop believes he has a solid foundation for a collaborative effort, but acknowledges there is still lots of work to be done. In its current form, NATIVE(X) is a platform for Native artists to sell their work and share their stories by collaborating with NATIVE(X)on its line of bags, wallets and iPad cases, he said. Nathaniel Wilkerson is the first artist to work with NATIVE(X). He created the design for its product label and allows Bishop to sell his prints and art cards on the NATIVE(X) website. It's a collaboration that he considers mutually beneficial because it exposes his work to a wider audience. Working with a non-Native was never an issue, said Wilkerson. Most of the galleries that show his work are not owned by Natives, and a lot of them have closed since the economic downturn, making the extra exposure all the more valuable, he said. Some feel NATIVE(X) has yet to prove itself. Metcalfe of Beyond Buckskin says it's too early to fairly evaluate the company's success, especially in light of its Pendleton connection. "Pendleton has built their small empire off of being inspired by and learning about (and replicating) Native American aesthetic traditions," she said. "I think it's time that we stop looking at non-Native versions of Native American cultures as the thing to celebrate and the thing to uphold as the best example of 'Native American fashion.' " Bishop acknowledged the sensitivities associated with being a white person going into business with Native artists, but he is hopeful that "good intentions should be able to overcome that." In the meantime, NATIVE(X) has made strides toward its goal of social consciousness by sponsoring a wearable art workshop on the Umatilla Indian Reservation, which drew praise and attention from various people. Handbag designer Maya Stewart learned about NATIVE(X) from Metcalfe's Twitter feed and saw potential through the platform to reach a wider audience. She contacted him to discuss potential ventures, which are still in the works. "I think it's important that we as designers educate people through our art and whoever creates that platform, whether it's a Native or non-Native, it's the same thing as long as we're getting the word out." After their somewhat acrimonious beginning, Dunlap says he now considers Bishop an "ally-in-training." "We need allies who may not be from our community, but know our community because someone educated him. That's what's going to help change how others see us." Follow CNN Living on Facebook and Emanuella Grinberg on Twitter  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/living/library-learning-labs-connected-learning/index.html	living	Library learning labs use connected learning principles to draw teens - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 08:03:35 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- On the third floor of the Nashville Public Library downtown branch, past the hushed rows of monochrome bookshelves and solid wood furniture, a door leads to a place where adult patrons are not welcome. Instead of silence, laughter and chatter fills the room. Colorful bookshelves line the wall, holding graphic novels, manga comics and self-help books on bullying and applying to college. Teens sit in circles talking, reading and doing homework. Others play video games on their phones or on gaming consoles attached to televisions. The staff takes special pride in its mentor-led activities, offered in partnerships with various community organizations: a spoken word workshop, a video game program and a makerspace, or workshop, where teens create birdcages, duct tape wallets and other art projects. It might be a library, but for 18-year-old Alexis Woodward, the atmosphere is more like a "family reunion," she said. "It's always packed until it closes. Everybody goes to the library after school," said Woodward, who began participating in the spoken word program when she was 14. Collections, staff and space dedicated to teens have existed in libraries for years. Now, libraries are shifting those resources to developing learning spaces where teens can create content instead of consume it. Research has shown the widespread positive impacts of afterschool programs on academic achievement and social behavior, especially in low-income communities. The need for spaces that engage teens becomes even greater during summer break, when teens have more free time, said Elyse Adler with the Nashville Public Library. "We want to provide teens with spaces to explore learning and digital media that they don't have access to in their homes or at school," she said. The Nashville Public Library Foundation is one of 24 sites that received $1.2 million in grants from the Institute of Museum and Library Services and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation to build innovative learning labs for teens that promote "creativity, critical thinking and hands-on learning." After years of planning and collaborating, some sites are opening this year in Nashville, Minnesota, Ohio and elsewhere. A small lab opened in April in the Nashville Public Library's Green Hills location, and construction is under way on its main downtown branch: a 2,500-square-foot teen learning lab in the main branch. The space will house a recording booth, editing bays and a bigger makerspace with a 3-D printer and squishy circuits, among other goodies requested by teens involved in the planning (and naming) of "Studio NPL." The new space will enable teens who follow Woodward in the spoken word program to do even more than she did, from using editing software to animating poetry to recording songs. "It's going to be amazing," said Woodward, who tested some of the technology and made proposals before aging out of the teen center this year. "Teens will have more chances to experiment." Centers of active learning Focusing on learning labs, or digital media centers, is just one way libraries are evolving from passive gatekeepers of information to community centers of active learning, said Barbara Stripling, president of the American Library Association. Teens need these kinds of places to find their voices, Stripling said. "Libraries are trying to give teens opportunities to work outside of the bounds of the school curriculum to explore their interests," she said. The shift also comes at a moment when educators and researchers are rethinking how to use digital media to inspire lifelong learning, said Amy Eshleman with the Urban Libraries Council, who is helping support implementation of the 24 learning labs. The guiding principles of the learning labs are based on anthropologist Mimi Ito's research suggesting teens thrive in learning environments where "hanging out, messing around and geeking out" is encouraged. Also known as connected learning, it's an approach that encourages teens to use new media to burrow deep into their passions and find ways to turn them into educational and economic opportunities. "It's all about engaging them in a space where they can be with peers, unpack their interests and get better at things they care about, and help them find a path from their passions to opportunities in the real world," Eshleman said. The spaces are inspired by Chicago's YOUMedia center in the Harold Washington Library, which has become a model of connected learning. About 60 to 80 teens use the space each day to use produce music, videos, podcasts or to experiment in photography, creative writing, 3-D printing, or video game design, to name just a few activities. Each activity leads to another, said library associate and YOUMedia mentor Marcus Lumpkin. When the YOULit magazine team attended Chicago Zine Fest in March, they met independent publishers, traded copies of their magazines for others, and documented the experience through various media. Library of Games, a website and weekly podcast all about video games, started with a group of teens playing video games at the center. The skills acquired in each activity build on each other, he said. Teens learn to build and maintain websites and create content, he said. They also learn to think critically and work in teams, he said. "We're working to validate their interests. While schools are fighting to get students interested in science, technology, education arts and mathematics, I think the library is doing a great job in allowing teens to dive into those fields through their individual interests." The staff is proud of how they've managed to harness individual passions to make the most of students' time at the YOUMedia center, said Andrea Saenz with the Chicago Public Library. The next step is finding more direct paths to education and employment opportunities. "We're trying to the embody notion of connected learning that's about making sure kids make a clear connection between what they're doing in the space and careers and opportunities to participate in civic life," she said. A 'cultural shift' Teens have been at the core of Nashville Public Library's institutional evolution since the early 2000s, said Elyse Adler, associate director for community engagement. That's when five new branches were built, including the main branch downtown, with spaces dedicated to teens. They brought in teens to help out around the library and serve on an advisory committee. When the teens recommended partnering with community organizations for programming, they partnered with spoken word education program Southern Word. They also suggested training for adult librarians on best practices for engaging young patrons, little things like smiling and being friendly, or talking to them as they would adults. It was all part of a "cultural shift" that redefined how the library served teens, Adler said. "Teens need more opportunities for learning outside of school, and libraries are uniquely positioned to fill that need in being free and open to everyone in the community," she said. Alexis Woodward began visiting the main branch for Southern Word in ninth grade and became a regular. Through open mics, international food days and poetry slams, she met other teens from "bad neighborhoods" trying to avoid trouble. She improved her writing, self-confidence and public speaking, and built leadership skills that led her to become a Southern Word mentor. Now, she's bound for Southern Illinois University in the fall with substantial financial assistance. "It was a very positive thing to do after school instead of going out and getting in trouble," she said. "I've seen friends get arrested and hurt; some have died, and I felt like I would've been in that in that world if I hadn't been in the library working toward being a better poet and a better writer." The library also partnered with Vanderbilt University to start Nashville Building Blocks, a program that uses Minecraft and other video games to explore architecture. Instructor Ty Hollet worked with the non-profit Nashville Civic Designer Center to brainstorm building projects based on real infrastructure needs in Nashville, from housing and commercial development to train stations, for teens to work on. Participant Jack Fox, 14, already played Minecraft at home with friends, but through the library program, he learned a new use for it. Through building residential communities and a bridge, he also learned more about Nashville 's geography. "Now, I have this whole visual map in my head of the city that I didn't have before," he said. When teens learn something new through activities they enjoy -- like playing video games -- the lesson is just as valuable as a test or piece of homework, Hollett said. And, it'll probably be more meaningful in the long term. "Through experiences teens have with digital media in and out of school, we're recognizing that learning doesn't just take place in classroom. It takes place in libraries, museums and homes," he said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/03/living/slenderman-stabbing-questions-for-parents/index.html	living	Slenderman stabbing case: When can kids understand fact vs. fiction? - CNN.com	2014/06/03	Tuesday Jun 3 10:07:23 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kelly Wallace is CNN's digital correspondent and editor-at-large covering family, career and life. She is a mom of two. Read her other columns and follow her reports at CNN Parents and on Twitter. (CNN) -- The case of  two 12-year-old girls accused of stabbing their friend multiple times to impress a fictitious Internet bogeyman raises so many questions for parents: How can we be sure our children can truly separate reality from fantasy? What are the warning signs that children are confusing the two? And how on Earth can we keep tabs on everything they're consuming online? Police said the girls told them they attacked their friend on Saturday to win favor with Slenderman, a make-believe online character the girls said they learned about on a site called Creepypasta Wiki, which is filled with horror stories. READ: Ghoulish stabbing raises question: Who is Slenderman? Children of all ages are consumed with fantasy in books and movies such as "Harry Potter, "Twilight" and "The Vampire Diaries," and don't seem to have a problem making the distinction between what's real and what's not. But a story like this makes any parent wonder: Whoa, maybe my kid doesn't get it? Mary Ellen Cavanagh of Ahwatukee, Arizona, mom to an almost 14-year-old daughter and a 19-year-old son, said she sees the line between fantasy and reality "thinning drastically among our youth." "I worry about it with my own daughter and her friends," Cavanagh said on Facebook, adding that her daughter and her friends enjoy relatively innocent fantasy shows on television and online. Still, she worries that their "obsession" could shift to a "more violent genre at any moment." "I think today's generation has been desensitized by the various forms of media, and we as parents (myself included) have done a piss-poor job giving them proper guidance," Cavanagh said. Professor Jacqueline Woolley of the University of Texas at Austin's department of psychology studies children's thinking and their ability to make distinctions between fantasy and reality. She has found that by the age of 2, children understand the categories of what's real and what's not, and over time, they use cues to fit things like unicorns, ghosts and Santa Claus into the real and not real boxes. By age 12, the age of the girls in question in this case, Woolley said, she believes children should have as good an ability to differentiate fantasy from reality as adults. "I don't think that a 12-year-old is deficient or is qualitatively different from an adult in their ability to differentiate fantasy from reality, so I don't think they're lacking any basic ability to make that distinction at age 12," she said. Woolley did suggest, adding that she was purely speculating, that the fact that the frontal lobe of the brain is not fully developed until age 25 could be relevant in this case. The frontal lobe controls what's called executive functions, which include impulse control and planning in the sense of anticipating all the different aspects of an outcome. READ: Why teens are wired for risk  "It may be kind of an inability to hold the potential consequences and reality in mind at the same time as you're holding potential consequences within your fantasy world in mind, whereas possibly an adult could sort of manage thinking about the consequences of both of those worlds at the same time," she said. On the other hand, she said, many children can create imaginary worlds and are able to differentiate what's happening in their make-believe worlds with what's going on in real life. "I really don't think that you can put your finger on a cognitive deficit entirely," she said about this case. "I mean it may have played some kind of role, but I think there's more going on." When teens are 'temporary sociopaths' Criminologist Jack Levin, a professor of sociology and criminology at Northeastern University, points to another possible trigger: the relationship between the two girls accused in the stabbing. "I think it's the chemistry between these two girls. It was insane. Not in their minds but in their relationship," said Levin on CNN's "@This Hour." It may turn out that one of the girls was more troubled and that caused the relationship to take a tragic turn, he added. "I call some teenagers and preteens temporary sociopaths," he said. "They commit a hideous crime at the age of 12 or 13 that they wouldn't dare commit if you can get them to the age of 25, when their brain has developed more and they no longer have this kind of character disorder. And when you put them together with another youngster, you may ask for big trouble." Linda Esposito, a licensed clinical social worker and psychotherapist in Los Angeles, said she has provided counseling to hundreds of 12-year-olds over the years, treating children in inner-city schools, foster care, protective custody and through private practice. "And I've yet to encounter such cold-blooded minds," said Esposito, who hosts a blog on psychotherapy called Talk Therapy Biz. "I imagine as the story unfolds, many red flags will be uncovered. Nobody just snaps, not even innocent-looking kids." The role of media  Beyond any issues the girls were facing, their relationship and their ability -- or inability -- to separate reality from fantasy, there is another issue: the media, according to the leader of a watchdog group for children's media. "What you see is kids who are at risk for violent actions or depression or anxiety and who feel those feelings more strongly can sometimes be motivated to act on them by images and stories in the media," said James Steyer, chief executive officer and founder of the nonprofit child advocacy group Common Sense Media. "I think that the research is clear that there is a correlation between repetitive viewing of violence, for example, and increased aggressive behavior, as well as desensitization to violence," he said. OPINION: Do violent video games play a role in shootings? OPINION: Don't link video games with mass shootings  No one is blaming the media, Steyer said, but, "We're also not saying it doesn't matter, because it does matter." "This is an issue and an ongoing issue. It's been true for many years. In a 24/7 digital media universe, it's that much more prevalent because it's so much harder to monitor." What can parents do?  That raises the question of what parents can do, especially when it seems impossible to know everything our children are doing online. "Parents have to be involved and proactive before even allowing young children to become active online and must continue to monitor, educate and discuss behavior and situations throughout their teen years," Anna White Berry said on Facebook. She's a mom of two in Littleton, Colorado. "Too many parents take a back seat because they either don't want to bother learning 'new' technology and sites or feel like they need to give their children privacy," she said. READ: How to get your teens to talk about everything Warning signs for parents that their children may be having trouble absorbing what they're engaging with online, or differentiating fantasy from reality, include withdrawing from real friends, not engaging with other aspects of their lives, self-injury and injury to others, experts say. Steyer of Common Sense Media said the takeaway from this latest tragedy is the need for every parent to talk with their children, but he concedes that isn't always enough. "I think that the key is you need to have an ongoing dialogue with your kids and learn what they're doing, and what they're watching, surfing and playing with and you can't always unearth everything," Steyer said. "You try to be involved. You try to set context. You try to know, but it's not easy," he added. "You can't blame the parents. There's no one factor involved. There's no one simple factor." Do you think the line between reality and fantasy is thinning dramatically for today's generation? Share your thoughts in the comments or tell Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/europe/ukraine-crisis/index.html	world	Separatists, government troops continue faceoff in eastern Ukraine - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 02:10:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Ukraine is days away from getting a new president, though seemingly much longer from securing a lasting peace -- as demonstrated yet again Thursday, with its military and separatists continuing to face off in eastern and southern parts of the country. As has been true for weeks, the deadly clashes are centered in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. Pro-Russian separatists have seized two military bases, and civilian deaths have been reported. Ukrainian National Guard troops on Thursday blocked the main road between the cities of Donetsk and Slovyansk, a hotbed for separatists. Slovyansk itself appeared relatively calm, though there was a real potential the area could erupt at any moment with military and separatist positions separated by less than 1 kilometer. In nearby Krasny Liman, a Ukrainian flag flew over City Hall after government troops took over that community from separatist forces. This turnover followed two days of heavy fighting, with residents reporting they heard firing overnight. Still, any celebration had to be muted by the fact that militants remain close by, dug in on a main road several miles east of the city. These tensions simmered while, hundreds of miles away in Brussels, Belgium, the situation in Ukraine dominated a meeting of G7 leaders. U.S. President Barack Obama threatened more economic sanctions against Russia -- which many in the West accuse of fomenting instability and violence in Ukraine by allowing weapons into the region and supporting separatists -- unless it takes key steps in the coming weeks. Obama warns Russia about continued meddling Those include recognizing Petro Poroshenko, who recently won the first national election since the unrest began last November, as Ukraine's President when he is inaugurated Saturday. Until now, the Kremlin has refused to recognize the legitimacy of the Kiev-based government that took over after the ouster of then-President Viktor Yanukovych. Neither Poroshenko nor his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, ruled out the possibility of meeting when they are in France over the coming days. If they do, they'll have their work cut out for them, given the deep divisions about what's happened in Ukraine and what should happen next. Still, the two countries appear to be coming together at least in one respect: Russia's ambassador to Ukraine, Mikhail Zurabov, will attend Poroshenko's inauguration, according to state-run RIA Novosti. "[Zurabov] is returning to Kiev in order to continue executing his functions," added Russian foreign ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich. Conflicting accounts in heightened eastern Ukraine fighting Obama vows to stand with Ukraine as he meets President-elect in Poland CNN's Tim Lister contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/sport/tennis/french-open-djokovic-gulbis-murray-nadal/index.html	iSport	French Open: Novak Djokovic into final after victory over Ernests Gulbis - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 10:59:45 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Novak Djokovic is the first man through to the 2014 French Open final after a 6-3 6-3 3-6 6-3 victory over Latvia's Ernests Gulbis. On a sweltering afternoon at Roland Garros, Djokovic kept his nerve to capitalize on the often unorthodox and ambitious shot-making of his 18th-seeded opponent. The World No. 2 will now aim to become only the eighth man to complete a career grand slam. Djokovic will face the winner of Friday's second semi-final between eight-time time French Open winner Rafael Nadal and reigning Wimbledon champion, Andy Murray. More to follow... Read: Sharapova survives scare to reach last four Read: Serena crashes out of French Open Read: Bieber fan Bouchard into grand slam semi  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/politics/clinton-book-friday/index.html	politics	In book, Clinton raised concern about any Taliban talks for Bergdahl - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 09:39:51 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- When she was America's top diplomat, Hillary Clinton acknowledged that negotiating with the Taliban for Bowe Bergdahl's release "would be hard to swallow for many Americans," according to a copy of her upcoming book, "Hard Choices," which was obtained by CBS News. In other foreign policy matters, Clinton writes how she pushed for arming Syrian rebels and also highlights her differences with President Barack Obama on the high-stakes issue. She also said that she regretted her 2002 vote in support of U.S. military action in Iraq. Also in her book, set to hit bookshelves on Tuesday, Clinton dishes on the 2008 campaign against Obama, her feelings about Sarah Palin, and her role in planning her daughter's 2010 wedding. Clinton was skeptical of Bergdahl release  On Bergdahl, the former secretary of state writes that the Taliban's "top concern seemed to be the fate of its fighters being held at Guantanamo Bay and other prisons." "In every discussion about prisoners, we demanded the release of Army Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl, who had been captured in 2009. There would not be any agreement about prisoners without the sergeant coming home," she writes, according to the excerpts. "I acknowledged, as I had many times before, that opening the door to negotiations with the Taliban would be hard to swallow for many Americans after so many years of war," she added. Former officials told CNN earlier this week that Clinton was skeptical of early plans to trade Taliban prisoners, which the Obama administration ultimately did to win Bergdahl's release last week. A measured defense of release On Monday, Clinton was asked whether she would have approved the same deal for five Taliban commanders who had been held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. She did not directly answer the question and offered a measured defense of the Obama administration. "We do have a tradition and I ascribe to it," Clinton said. "We try not to leave any of our soldiers on the field. We try to make sure, insofar as possible, you know, we bring them home." Republicans have been blasting the Obama administration for the prisoner exchange, saying the President set a dangerous precedent by negotiating with terrorists. Clinton left the State Department at the start of last year and is weighing another bid for the White House. America's former top diplomat on world leaders Clinton traveled to 112 countries as secretary of state, and negotiated with world leaders. In her memoir, she describes some in unvarnished terms, according to CBS -- something she has done on her speaking tour. Clinton writes that Chinese President Hu Jintao was like an "Aloof chairman of the board" and that German Chancellor Angela Merkel -- someone she has said she admired in the past -- was "decisive, astute, straight-forward," the CBS story said. On Vladimir Putin, the Russian president who has long been a thorn in the side of the United States, Clinton writes that he "proved over time to be thin skinned and autocratic," according to the CBS account. Clinton's blunt descriptions of Putin are nothing new.  Earlier this year, she compared his actions in annexing Crimea to those of Adolf Hitler during World War II. She also suggested Putin's Russia now is similar to that of former Russian "czars and their successor Communist leaders." Putin has also responded to Clinton is less diplomatic terms. Earlier this week, he told a French television station that the former first lady has "never been too graceful in her statements" but that "it's better not to argue with women." 'I still got it wrong' on Iraq On the Iraq War, Clinton writes she wish she hadn't voted to authorize the use of military force in Iraq in 2002. "As the war dragged on, with every letter I sent to a family in New York who had lost a son or daughter, a father or mother, my mistake become (sic) more painful," she writes, according to excerpts posted online by CBS. "I thought I had acted in good faith and made the best decision I could with the information I had. And I wasn't alone in getting it wrong. But I still got it wrong. Plain and simple," she said. It's not the first time she's expressed regret, but it's some of the strongest language she's used on the issue. Clinton's vote became a key topic in her marathon 2008 battle with Obama for the Democratic presidential nomination. The issue, more than the economy, dominated the early parts of the campaign, with Obama criticizing Clinton over the vote. Clinton at first refused to term it a mistake, but later said during the campaign that she would not have voted the same way. Obama, who was a major opponent of the war, never had to vote on whether to authorize military action against Saddam Hussein, as he was not elected to the Senate until 2004. Clinton rarely talks about her vote on Iraq and in the last few months, as she has crisscrossed the country speaking to a wide array of audiences, she has not been asked about it. Conflict in Syria In the book, Clinton describes the bloody three-year long civil war in Syria as "a wicked problem." Clinton goes on to say that's "a term used by planning experts to describe particularly complex challenges that confound standard solutions and approaches. Wicked problems rarely have a right answer; in fact, part of what makes them wicked is that every option appears worse than the next. Increasingly that's how Syria appeared." On whether to arm the Syrian rebels, a contentious issue, Clinton writes that "I returned to Washington reasonably confident that if we decided to begin arming and training moderate Syrian rebels, we could put in place effective coordination with our regional partners." Clinton says there was no good policy action for the United States, and she highlights were she and Obama disagreed on the conflict. "[T]he risks of both action and inaction were high. Both choices would bring unintended consequences. The President's inclination was to stay the present course and not take the significant further step of arming rebels. "No one likes to lose a debate, including me. But this was the President's call and I respected his deliberations and decision. From the beginning of our partnership, he had promised me that would always get a fair hearing. And I always did. In this case, my position didn't prevail," Clinton writes. Although as Clinton backed Obama's Syria policy as secretary of state - including negotiating with the international community on the civil war and criticizing countries like Russia and China, which stood in the way of toppling Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Clinton's writings now show the level with which she split with Obama on arming the rebels. When asked about Syria at events during her time on the paid speaking circuit, Clinton has used identically language to describe the conflict. At an April event in Boston, Clinton told an audience of women leaders that the conflict was a "wicked problem" that "really requires a broad base of knowledge." "It doesn't mean you're not incensed, heartsick, angry," Clinton told the audience at Simmons College. "But then you need to stop and say 'well, what can we do about it? How can we intervene in a way that helps, not hurts?'" Asked Obama to end the Cuba embargo As secretray of state, Clinton recommended that Obama end the decades-long embargo on Cuba, according to book excerpts obtained by The Associated Press. "People-to-people engagement was the best way to encourage reform in Cuba," Clinton writes, noting that those in Congress who don't want to restore diplomatic relations with the communist country have a positions that is unsustainable, the AP reported. The embargo was put in place in 1960 by then-President John F. Kennedy. In 2011, the United Nations overwhelmingly voted for the United States to end the embargo. A number of lawmakers in Congress -- led in part by Republican Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida -- have argued against lifting the embargo. Obama, Sarah Palin, and Chelsea Clinton also takes readers into her private meeting with Obama prior to the 2008 Democratic convention, which gave the former rivals an opportunity "to clear the air," Clinton writes. "We stared at each other like two teenagers on an awkward first date, taking a few sips of Chardonnay," she writes of the meeting. "One silver lining of defeat was that I came out of the experience realizing I no longer cared so much about what the critics said about me," she said. Clinton also dishes on the Obama campaign's reaction to then-Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin's selection as Sen. John McCain's running mate, and why she declined to follow the Obama campaign's playbook on slamming the pick. While the campaign issued a "dismissive statement" and urged Clinton to do the same, the then-senator from New York writes that she declined. "I wouldn't. I was not going to attack Palin just for being a woman appealing for support from other women," Clinton writes. "I didn't think it made political sense, and it didn't feel right. So I said no." Hitting a lighter note, Clinton's memoir also discusses the "urgent business" she had to address during her tenure as secretary of state - her daughter's wedding. Flying back from Vietnam in the summer of 2010, Clinton had to shift her attention from rising tensions in the South China Sea to "one of the most important events of my life." "This time it wasn't a high-level summit or a diplomatic crisis. It was my daughter's wedding, a day I had been looking forward to for thirty years," Clinton writes. "I felt lucky that my day job had prepared me for the elaborate diplomacy required to help plan a big wedding." Clinton writes that she was happy to help in any way she could and her responsibilities ranged from "reviewing photographs of flower arrangements" and heading home for tastings and dress selections. As for the former president? "Bill was as emotional as I was, maybe even more so, and I was just glad he made it down the aisle in one piece," Clinton writes. As Chelsea Clinton and her father danced to "The Way You Look Tonight," Hillary Clinton's head swirled with thoughts. "It was one of the happiest and proudest moments of my life," Clinton writes. "Our family had been through a lot together, good times and hard times, and now here we were, celebrating the best of times." 'Hard Choices': A book rollout or a campaign tune up? CNN's Ashley Killough, Jeremy Diamond, Dan Merica and Paul Steinhauser contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/sport/football/bosnia-world-cup-dzeko-2014-brazil/index.html	iSport	From bullet holes to Brazil: Edin Dzeko's new chapter for Bosnia - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:58:55 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- It's the question Edin Dzeko is constantly asked. "You ask me again about war..." sighs the 28-year-old, rolling his eyes and smiling as he enjoys a rare moment of peace outside Bosnia-Herzegovina's team hotel in the picturesque suburb of Ilidza. Perhaps the line of questioning is understandable given that just a short drive away is Dzeko's home city of Sarajevo, where the national hero lived throughout the Bosnian War which raged between 1992 and 1995. The war in Bosnia left tens of thousands dead, and hundreds of thousands displaced. But just as the bullet holes which still riddle this land represent a gruesome past, Dzeko and his teammates have become symbols of a different more optimistic future. For the first time in its short history, Bosnia is off to the World Cup. "I never thought I would be where I am now," Dzeko, who played a key role in Manchester City's 2013-14 English Premier League title triumph, told CNN. Dzeko's early years were played out against the devastating backdrop of the consequences of a brutal internecine conflict. "I started to play football when I was about 10, my father brought me to one school because there were more pitches where we could play. Everything was destroyed after the war." In previous interviews Dzeko has spoken of how his family home was destroyed and he was forced to live in his grandparents' house with 15 of his relatives. His mother once inadvertently saved his life, calling him inside seconds before the land he was playing on was hit by bombs. One player is particularly popular with young Bosnian fans... https://t.co/9CaDAympiF The siege of Sarajevo followed the break-up of the former Yugoslavia, with conflict erupting between the ethnic groups which make up Bosnia -- chiefly Bosnian Muslims, Croats and Serbs. Modern-day Bosnia is an independent state, although still under international administration. "I was here all the time during the war and I know what it is, but I think we came out stronger," explains Dzeko. "We want to show the world that even if you go through some bad periods, you always have to think positive just to go forward. "Some people had a very hard life, we are still making positives and I think that's amazing." Read: Dzeko urges the world to help flood victims Amid the bombs and bullets, Dzeko forged an unlikely path to the top. After signing his first professional contract in Bosnia, the young striker earned a move to Teplice in the Czech Republic before getting his big break with VFL Wolfsburg in the German Bundesliga. He became one of the hottest properties in European football during a prolific spell which saw him score 67 Bundesliga goals in three-and-a-half seasons, with City winning the race for his signature after paying Wolfsburg a reported $45 million in January 2011. While Dzeko carries echoes of the fighting wherever he goes, other members of the Bosnia squad had a different experience. Asmir Begovic and his family left Trebinje, 80 miles south of Sarajevo, and headed to Germany before immigrating to Canada. Aged four when his family relocated, Begovic has no memories of the conflict which engulfed his homeland. The Bosnia slogan: "Dragons fly (or walk) to Brazil." pic.twitter.com/z8FY56PtFO "And it's probably better so," the 26-year-old goalkeeper, who plays in England for Stoke City. "I mean it's obviously very bad memories, very bad experiences for some of my other family members who have been around and stayed for the war. "I left when I was a boy, so I really don't remember much from the past. "As I've gotten older I've educated myself a little on the situation and what happened, drawn on experiences from my family members and friends, who lived through it and it was just a very unpleasant experience as people can imagine. "For our quality of life as a family, just being able to be safe in a different country meant a lot to us." Although Begovic's life abroad has left its mark on his voice -- he speaks perfect English with a slight North American accent -- he insists his upbringing was distinctly Bosnian. "I've always been very close to the country," he says. "When the opportunity came it was a fantastic thing for myself and my family to do, I couldn't wait to put on a Bosnia shirt and I haven't really looked back since." Read: Kosovo's battle for football recognition Neither has Bosnia's national football team. Since an inauspicious first official international match in November 1995 -- a 2-0 reverse away to Albania -- "The Dragons" have gone from strength to strength. Bids to qualify for the 2010 World Cup and the 2012 European Championships fell agonizingly short, with Portugal ending the team's hopes at the playoff stage of both qualification competitions. But, on October 15, 2013 in the Lithuanian capital city of Vilnius, a goal from striker Vedad Ibisevic sealed a 1-0 win for Safet Susic's Bosnia and passage to Brazil 2014. Cue wild celebrations on the streets of Sarajevo, with the team flying home to be greeted by 50,000 ecstatic Bosnian football fans. "I am proud of this team that we achieved some great things, that we did some things that nobody could do it before us," said Dzeko. "When you see 50,000 there waiting for you, then you know you did something good." "We've learned from our past, we've learned from our failures and I think we've definitely grown as a team and we've been able to overcome that final hurdle now," added Begovic. "To receive such an ovation and such a reception from our people, being able to celebrate with them is what qualifying and being able to qualify for major tournaments is all about. "It's something we have all accomplished together." Now Rio de Janeiro's iconic Maracana Stadium awaits. At the arena first built for the 1950 World Cup and lavishly redeveloped for Brazil's second hosting of the tournament, Bosnia will take its bow against a Lionel Messi-led Argentina. African Cup of Nations winners Nigeria and Iran are the other two teams which make up a tough Group F. "I'm very much looking forward to it," says Begovic, who will be trying to keep out four-time FIFA Ballon d'Or winner Messi. "That's what football is all about, being able to work your whole life to get to a World Cup and then playing against one of the biggest football countries in the world in the opening game. "Obviously we're massive underdogs, so we've got nothing to lose in that game, we can go there with an open mind and see how we can beat them. "It's going to be a huge challenge, but I believe in the quality of our team and we can cause Argentina problems." With players like Begovic and Dzeko, not to mention Roma playmaker Miralem Pjanic, Bosnia have players capable of upsetting the odds. And in Dzeko, they also have a leader who is determined to show how far his country has come in the last 20 years. "I love this country, I love my country," he said. "I am very happy that I am born here and I am very happy that I know that I will always, always come back here. "I think we all just can't wait for this World Cup to start." Interactive: Take the pulse of the 2014 World Cup Read: "I feel like I lost my brain" -- Vieira  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/opinion/pomeroy-kandel-medical-research/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Cutting budgets for medical research is dangerous - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:51:22 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Claire Pomeroy is president of the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, the mission of which is to improve health by accelerating support for medical research. Eric R. Kandel, a neuropsychiatrist, received the 1983 Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award and the 2000 Nobel Prize in Medicine. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the authors.  (CNN) -- Renee was just a baby when she was diagnosed with a deadly liver disease. At age 23, Erin was told she had cancer. And Shelley's progressive hearing loss isolated her from her family and the world. Every day, patients like them seek hope that new treatments and cures are on the horizon. That hope is now seriously threatened by our nation's declining commitment to investing in medical research. Recently, 186 members of Congress from both parties wrote their colleagues on the Appropriations Committees to urge that the 2015 federal budget include at least $32 billion for the National Institutes of Health to ensure medical research in our country continues to thrive. Watch video: Pausing medical research: A dangerous experiment The lawmakers' call to action was prompted by the distressing reality of NIH budgets, which have flat-lined across the past decade. Federally funded research adjusted for inflation has experienced a 20% decline in purchasing power, forcing medical laboratories around the country to curtail crucial experiments, delay clinical studies and forgo hiring of promising young investigators. This is a tragic deviation from the history of support previous generations of Americans have given to medical discovery and the scientific community. Federally funded research was a priority because it made possible many life-saving medical breakthroughs. Vaccines were developed, including one for polio that stopped an epidemic of childhood paralysis and another for the human papillomavirus vaccine that can actually prevent cervical cancer. New chemotherapies dramatically changed the prognosis for a number of previously fatal cancers. The course of the HIV/AIDS epidemic was altered as the causative virus was identified and effective antiretroviral drugs were discovered. Scientists sequenced the human genome, paving the way for personalized medicine. Basic science is the fundamental foundation for medical breakthroughs, providing insights into the ways cells and organisms work, the normal function of the human body and the perturbations that occur during disease. Basic research also can yield unexpected results with serendipitous insights that lead to unpredicted advances and solutions for serious diseases. Clinical research then translates these basic findings into new drugs, devices and other interventions that will become the tools for future medical care. Interrupting budgets on basic and clinical research is dangerous. Skipping even a few years in adequately funding research programs may seem like an obvious fiscal fix, but such a skewed notion risks devastating health as well as our nation's prosperity and security. Each day the debilitating effects of the slowdown have already forced dedicated scientists to struggle to do more with less. But the effects will linger even after funding is restored, further delaying scientific progress. More time will be lost because researchers will have to re-establish research models and laboratory protocols, re-hire and retrain staff and repeat costly experiments to confirm that results are still reproducible. The hiatus in adequate research support also sends discouraging messages to the next generation of researchers. The cuts have caused trainees to question whether they will be able to obtain grant support to do the work they love. Too many are choosing other fields because of the uncertainty. This loss of human resources will take many years to replace. But the biggest danger is the loss of hope. Many patients don't have time to wait a few years for breakthroughs. Disease does not wait for an economic recovery. Unless Americans recommit to funding medical research, we should no longer assume that science will find a cure. For Renee, Erin and Shelley, medical research provided answers in time. Renee received a liver transplant and is now a successful attorney. Erin's leukemia was treated with a new chemotherapy and she is raising a beautiful baby. And thanks to a cochlear implant, Shelley can hear the voices of her grandchildren. Like them, every one of us has a stake in publicly funded science. We encourage all Americans to claim their stake, for their own sake and the sake of our nation's future. Urge members of Congress to voice their support for sustained funding for the National Institutes of Health in 2015, and beyond. Most importantly, let's keep our promise to each other, our children, our grandchildren and the rest of the world and renew America's commitment to funding lifesaving biomedical research. The opportunity to make breakthrough discoveries has never been more promising. The risk of losing that opportunity has never been more profound. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/opinion/navarrette-immigration-politics/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Undocumented fed up with partisan politics - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:49:29 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Ruben Navarrette is a CNN contributor and a nationally syndicated columnist with the Washington Post Writers Group. Follow him on Twitter: @rubennavarrette. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- The immigration debate in the United States should be guided by what is in the best interests of the United States. Take it from a fifth-generation American whose maternal ancestors have been in Texas since the Lone Star State was more commonly referred to as "Northern Mexico." Which means that Americans need to do everything they can to retain people such as Erika Andiola. We have to identify people like this 27-year-old undocumented immigrant from Mexico and find ways to allow them to remain in the only country they've ever known. We need more Erikas because the "DREAMer" -- who arrived in the United States when she was 11 and lives near Phoenix -- understands, better than many U.S.-born citizens, the responsibility to hold elected officials accountable regardless of what party they're in. Andiola is one of the most famous DREAMers in the country. In 2012, she appeared with nearly three dozen other undocumented immigrants -- including journalist Jose Antonio Vargas -- on the cover of Time magazine. In September 2013, she began an eye-opening adventure when she went to Washington to work for Rep. Kyrsten Sinema. She lasted four months. She left after concluding from conversations with other congressional aides that Democrats would prefer not to solve the immigration problem because they would rather use it a club to bludgeon Republicans. She wrote about her experience and observed that Washington was driven by "political games -- games that are causing too much pain in our community." She also declared that the immigrant community and the American people have more power to affect change than "politicians inside the beltway." Truth-telling won't make you popular. And for some in the immigrant advocacy movement, Andiola is now persona non grata. She is attacked on social media, and -- while she used to be a frequent guest at the White House for policy meetings on immigration -- she has recently been yanked out of line several times while waiting to enter for one event or another. Demanding results from Democratic elected officials can cost you friends among left-leaning activists who put their party before their cause. "Unfortunately, a lot of immigration activists are Democrats," Andiola told me. "As soon as anything comes out of their mouths, it's so biased." Spot on. Such honest talk can get you labeled a "Republican" by partisans on the left. Especially if you're also turning up the heat on Latino Democrats in Congress, directly confronting them and demanding that they pressure the White House to pursue immigration reform. And especially if you're criticizing a Democratic president for racking up deportations. "At this point, I wouldn't consider myself a Democrat or a Republican," Andiola said. "Immigration has become such a political issue that neither party is doing anything about it." Right again. The object of the game seems to be for both parties to look busy while doing nothing and then blame the other side for getting nothing done. Democrats want to use the issue to bludgeon Republicans, but they're also afraid of being seen as too sympathetic to illegal immigrants. It's an issue both parties wish would go away for another decade. Andiola has been an activist since 2010 when she pushed for the DREAM Act, which promised legal status to undocumented young people, and against the Arizona immigration law, which encouraged racial profiling. Now she is sick of politics. While she still supports a path to citizenship for the undocumented, she first wants an end to the deportations juggernaut that has wreaked havoc on so many families, including her own. The deportation issue eventually hit home for Erika. As a DREAMer, she has been granted a two-year work permit under the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. But while this protects her from being deported, that protection doesn't extend to her family. In January 2013, ICE agents stormed her mother's apartment and arrested her mother, Maria Arreola, and older brother, Heriberto. Erika mobilized her network, and her family was released -- though they still had to appear in court. In December 2013, Arreola was granted a temporary stay of deportation. For a 27-year-old, Andiola has had enough experiences to fill several lives. Yet, despite it all, she knows who she is -- even if the answer doesn't please everyone. In January 2013, she was being interviewed by Univision anchor and commentator Jorge Ramos about her mother's arrest. At the end of the interview, Ramos asked her: "Que eres?" (Who are you?) He wanted to know if she identified as a Mexican or North American or what. I could tell that Ramos was hoping she'd go with "Mexican." She didn't. "I'm very proud of my culture and heritage," Andiola said. "But I love this country. I think of myself as an American, a Mexican-American." Told you. She's one of ours. Now if we can just get her to teach her fellow Americans how to be less partisan and hold both parties' feet to the fire, we might form a more perfect union. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/opinion/miller-bergdahl-decision/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Bergdahl release: An ugly decision, but the right call - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:22:20 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Aaron David Miller is a vice president and distinguished scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and was a Middle East negotiator in Democratic and Republican administrations. Follow him on Twitter. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Having worked in government for more than two decades on the foreign policy side, one of my key takeaways is that the world is a cruel and unforgiving place. And with apologies to Clint Eastwood, more often than not, United States policy options are choices not among the good, bad and the ugly, but just between the last two. The deal to bring Bowe Bergdahl home was one such tortuous choice. Let's be clear: This is a very bad, even ugly deal. The United States undercut almost every principle we claim to adhere to on negotiating with terrorists (in this case, the Haqqani network, the militant group that was holding Bergdahl, has plenty of American blood on its hands) and let out some very bad guys who are almost certain to direct any number of enterprises to attack Americans and weaken the U.S. efforts in Afghanistan. And the administration carried out the Bergdahl deal with its characteristic lack of tactical dexterity and smarts, failing to brief key members of Congress appropriately and perhaps even violating U.S. law. Finally, for all its effort, given the strange and confusing facts surrounding Bergdahl's own actions, the Obama administration is being severely criticized for what it has done. But notwithstanding all that, and however distasteful the deal, it was both a moral and necessary one. And here's why: Written or unwritten, traditional code or assumed values, in an America-initiated war there are American responsibilities and commitments to those who fight it. We didn't seek out the Afghan campaign. It was a legitimate response to the 9/11 attacks, regardless of how badly managed and unattainable its objectives became over the past decade. And it matters not a whit that we have a volunteer military and that Bergdahl willfully stepped up or that he may have turned against the war or perhaps even deserted his post. These are matters that may or may not be sorted out later. What counts are the responsibilities and obligations the U.S. military and political establishment -- in this case, the commander in chief -- have to those whom they put in harm's way. This relationship between the state and those it marshals and mobilizes to defend the country -- draft or volunteer military -- is a fundamental and contractual obligation. That tradition was established in our own Civil War, in which the magnitude of the death and human misery fundamentally changed the relationship between the federal government and its citizenry. As the extraordinary PBS documentary "Death and the American Civil War" makes clear, before 1861, "there were no national cemeteries in America. No provisions for identifying the dead, or for notifying next of kin, or for providing aid to the suffering families of dead veterans. No federal relief organizations, no effective ambulance corps, no adequate federal hospitals, no federal provisions for burying the dead. No Arlington Cemetery. No Memorial Day." That war created a new frame of reference for soldier, citizen, and the state: a new set of commitments and undertakings at the national level that have broadened and deepened to this day. That Bergdahl may have violated his part of the contract is dismaying, even perverse, under the circumstances. But it is really not the point. He's one of ours in a war we may not have sought but that our military fought; we made his presence on the field of battle possible and we are responsible for getting him back. Does that mean paying any price and sacrificing countless Americans lives in the process? Of course not. But it does mean undertaking a determined -- even relentless -- effort to look for opportunities and ways to accomplish it consistent with our interests and values. Now for the price that was paid. The details of the urgency, timing and opportunity to trade for Bergdahl are not at all clear. The state of his health, the accuracy of Qatari warnings that his life was in danger, growing frustration on the part of his captors are all missing pieces. And we may never know them fully. The end results are clear though. Did the Haqqani network score a propaganda victory in this trade? Yes, they did. Did the United States weaken its own hand by showing that it will trade kidnapped U.S. soldiers for Afghan prisoners? Sure it did. Is there a risk that those we released will conspire again to kill Americans? You bet there is. But these are contingencies, possibilities in a world of uncertainties that must be measured against the certainty and reality of recovering an American life and redeeming a soldier after five years of captivity. We will never know whether, had the United States not cut this deal, Bergdahl would have been irreparably damaged or killed. Under these circumstances, the decision to redeem Bergdahl was not only compelling, it was a moral imperative. We are not the Israelis. We do not live in an environment of threat and insecurity, one in which our citizens serve in the military and that service is inextricably linked to our culture, values and perception of the world. We do not face existential threats. Nor is our political establishment conditioned to accept asymmetrical trades with terrorists that can reach such proportions as the prisoner deal with Hamas for kidnapped Israeli soldier Gilead Shalit, who was traded for 1,027 Palestinian prisoners. But we claim to be a moral nation with values and principles that coexist alongside our interests. Indeed, many argue that our values are our interests. I cannot think of many foreign policy actions in recent years in which the United States acted principally for moral, ethical or humanitarian considerations. This is one of those rare occasions. And instead of beating ourselves up -- and the President, too -- for acting according to values that we purport to cherish, we need to face up to the fact that we had the conviction and courage to act in a way that was both moral and necessary, however messy the process and the price we may yet pay. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/europe/obama-d-day-speech-transcript/index.html	world	Transcript of Obama's speeck on 70th Anniversary of D-Day - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 05:32:38 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Below are the President's remarks as prepared for Friday's event at the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial at Omaha Beach. Remarks of President Barack Obama -- As Prepared for Delivery 70th Anniversary of D-Day Omaha Beach, Normandy, France June 6, 2014  If prayer were made of sound, the skies over England that night would have deafened the world. Captains paced their decks. Pilots tapped their gauges. Commanders pored over maps, fully aware that for all the months of meticulous planning, everything could go wrong: the winds, the tides, the element of surprise -- and above all, the audacious bet that what waited on the other side of the Channel would compel men not to shrink away, but to charge ahead. Fresh-faced GIs rubbed trinkets, kissed pictures of sweethearts, checked and re-checked their equipment. "God," asked one, "Give me guts." And in the pre-dawn hours, planes rumbled down runways; gliders and paratroopers slipped through the sky; giant screws began to turn on an armada that looked like more ships than sea. And more than 150,000 souls set off towards this tiny sliver of sand upon which hung more than the fate of a war, but the course of human history. President Hollande, distinguished guests, I am honored to return here today to pay tribute to the men and women of a generation who defied every danger: among them, our veterans of D-Day. Gentlemen, we are truly humbled by your presence today. Just last week, I received a letter from a French citizen. "Dear Mr. President and the American people," he wrote, "[we are] honored to welcome you...to thank you again for all the pain and efforts of [the] American people and others in our common struggle for freedom." Today, we say the same to the people of France. Thank you, especially, for the generosity you've shown the Americans who've come here over the generations -- to these beaches, and to this sacred place of rest for 9,387 Americans. At the end of the war, when our ships set off for America filled with our fallen, tens of thousands of liberated Europeans turned out to say farewell. And they pledged to take care of the more than 60,000 Americans who would remain in cemeteries on this continent "as if," in the words of one man, "their tombs were our children's." You have kept your word, like the true friends you are. We are forever grateful. Here, we don't just commemorate victory, as proud of that victory as we are; we don't just honor sacrifice, as grateful as the world is; we come to remember why America and our allies gave so much for the survival of liberty at its moment of maximum peril. And we come to tell the story of the men and women who did it, so that it remains seared into the memory of the future world. We tell this story for the old soldiers who pull themselves a little straighter today to salute brothers who never made it home. For the daughter who clutches a faded photo of her father, forever young. For the child who runs his fingers over colorful ribbons he knows signify something of great consequence -- even if he doesn't yet know why. We tell this story to bear what witness we can to what happened when the boys from America reached Omaha Beach.  By daybreak, blood soaked the water, and bombs broke the sky. Thousands of paratroopers had dropped into the wrong landing sites; thousands of rounds bit into flesh and sand. Entire companies' worth of men fell in minutes. "Hell's Beach" had earned its name.  By 8:30 a.m., General Omar Bradley expected our troops to be a mile inland. "Six hours after the landings," he wrote, "we held only ten yards of beach." In our age of instant commentary, the invasion would have been swiftly and roundly declared, as it was by one officer, "a debacle."  But a race to judgment does not take into account the courage of free men. "Success may not come with rushing speed," President Roosevelt would say that night, "But we shall return again and again." Paratroopers fought through the countryside to find one another. Rangers pulled themselves over those cliffs to silence Nazi guns. To the West, Americans took Utah Beach with relative ease. To the East, the British tore through the coast, fueled by the fury of five years of bombs over London, and a solemn vow to "fight them on the beaches." The Canadians, whose shores had not been touched by war, drove far into France. And here, at Omaha, troops who finally made it to the seawall used it as shelter -- where a general barked, "If you're Rangers...lead the way!"  By the end of that longest day, this beach had been fought, lost, refought and won -- a piece of Europe once again liberated and free. Hitler's Wall was breached, letting loose Patton's Army to pour into France. Within a week, the world's bloodiest beach had become the world's busiest port. Within a month, one million Allied troops thundered through Normandy into Europe, and as our armies marched across the continent, one pilot said it looked "as if the very crust of the Earth had shaken loose." The Arc de Triomphe lit up for the first time in years, and Paris was punctuated by shouts of "Vive la France" and "Vive les tats Unis!"  Of course, even as we gather here at Normandy, we remember that freedom's victory was also made possible by so many others who wore America's uniform. Two years before he commanded armies here, Eisenhower's troops sliced through Northern Africa. Three times before D-Day, our GIs stormed the beaches at Sicily, Salerno, and Anzio. Divisions like the Fighting 36th brawled their way through Italy, fighting through the mud for months, marching through towns past waving children before opening the gates to Rome. As the "dogfaces" marched to victory in Europe, the Devil Dogs -- the Marines -- clawed their way from island to island in the Pacific, in some of the war's fiercest fighting. And back home, an army of women, including my grandmother, rolled up their sleeves to help build a mighty arsenal of democracy.  But it was here, on these shores, that the tide was turned in that common struggle for freedom.  What more powerful manifestation of America's commitment to human freedom than the sight of wave after wave of young men boarding those boats to liberate people they'd never met?  We say it now as if it couldn't be any other way. But in the annals of history, the world had never seen anything like it. When the war was won, we claimed no spoils of victory -- we helped Europe rebuild. We claimed no land other than the earth where we bury those who gave their lives under our flag, and where we station those who still serve under it. But America's claim -- our commitment -- to liberty; to equality; to freedom; to the inherent dignity of every human being -- that claim is written in blood on these beaches, and it will endure for eternity.  Omaha -- Normandy -- this was democracy's beachhead. And our victory in that war decided not just a century, but shaped the security and well-being of all posterity. We worked to turn old adversaries into new allies. We built new prosperity. We stood once more with the people of this continent through a long twilight struggle until finally, a wall tumbled down, and an Iron Curtain, too. From Western Europe to East; from South America to Southeast Asia; seventy years of democratic movements spread. Nations that once knew only the blinders of fear began to taste the blessings of freedom.  That would not have happened without the men who were willing to lay down their lives for people they'd never met, and ideals they couldn't live without.  That would not have happened without the troops President Roosevelt called "the life-blood of America...the hope of the world."  They left home barely more than boys and returned home heroes. But to their great credit, that is not how this generation carried itself. After the war, some put away their medals, kept humble about their service, and moved on. Some, carrying shrapnel and scars, found that they couldn't. Many, like my grandfather, who served in Patton's Army, lived a quiet life, trading one uniform and set of responsibilities for another -- teacher, doctor, engineer, Dad. Our country made sure millions of them earned a college education, opening opportunity on an unprecedented scale. They married those sweethearts and bought new homes and raised families and built businesses, lifting up the greatest middle class the world has ever known. And through it all, they were inspired, I suspect, by memories of fallen brothers -- memories that drove them to live their lives each day as best they possibly could.  Whenever the world makes you cynical -- stop and think of these men.  Think of Wilson Colwell, who was told he couldn't pilot a plane without a high school degree -- so he decided to jump out of them instead. And he did, here on D-Day, with the 101st Airborne -- when he was just sixteen years old.  Think of Harry Kulkowitz, the Jewish son of Russian immigrants, who fudged his age at enlistment so he could join his friends in the fight. Don't worry, Harry, the statute of limitations has expired. Harry came ashore at Utah Beach on D-Day. And now that he's come back, we said he could have anything he wants for lunch today -- he helped liberate this coast, after all. But this humble hero said a hamburger would do fine. And what's more American than that?  Think of "Rock" Merritt, who saw a recruitment poster asking him if he was man enough to be a paratrooper -- so he signed up on the spot. That decision landed him here on D-Day with the 508th regiment -- a unit that would suffer heavy casualties. Seventy years later, it's said that all across Fort Bragg, they know Rock. But not just for his exploits on D-Day, or his 35 years in the Army -- but because 91 year-old Rock Merritt still spends his time speaking to the young men and women of today's Army, and still bleeds "O.D. Green" for his 82nd Airborne.  Whenever the world makes you cynical -- stop and think of these men.  Wilson, Harry, and Rock are here today, and I would ask them -- along with our veterans of D-Day -- if you can, please stand; if not, please raise your hand and let us recognize your service.  These men waged war so that we might know peace. They sacrificed so that we might be free. They fought in hopes of a day when we'd no longer need to.  Gentlemen, I want each of you to know that your legacy is in good hands. For in a time when it has never been more tempting to pursue narrow self-interest and slough off common endeavor, this generation of Americans -- our men and women of war -- have chosen to do their part as well.  Rock, I want you to know that Staff Sergeant Melvin Cedillo-Martin, who's here today, is following in your footsteps. He just had to become an American first. Melvin was born in Honduras, moved to the States, and joined the Army. After tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, he was reassigned to the 82nd Airborne, and Sunday, he'll parachute into Normandy. "I became part of a family of real American heroes," he says. "The Paratroopers of the 82nd Airborne."  Wilson, you should know that Specialist Jannise Rodriguez joined the Army not even two years ago, was assigned to the 101st Airborne, and just last month, earned the title of the 101st Airborne Division Air Assault Soldier of the Year. That's inspiring, but not surprising -- not when the women of today's military have taken on responsibilities, including combat, like never before.  I want each of you to know that their commitment to their fellow service members and veterans endures. Sergeant First Class Brian Hawthorne's grandfather served under General Patton and General MacArthur. Brian himself served two tours in Iraq, earning the Bronze Star in Baghdad for saving the life of his best friend, and today, he and his wife use their experience to help other veterans and military families navigate theirs. Brian's here in Normandy to participate in Sunday's jump -- and here, just yesterday, he reenlisted in the Army Reserve.  This generation -- this 9/11 Generation of service members -- they, too, felt some tug; they answered some call; they said "I'll go." They too chose to serve a cause that's greater than self; many even after they knew they'd be sent into harm's way. And for more than a decade, they have endured tour after tour.  Sergeant First Class Cory Remsburg has served ten. I've told Cory's incredible story before, most recently when he sat with my wife, Michelle, at the State of the Union Address. But it was here, at Omaha Beach, on the 65th anniversary of D-Day, where I first met Cory and his fellow Army Rangers, right after they made their own jump into Normandy. The next time I saw him, he was in the hospital, unable to speak or walk after an IED nearly killed him in Afghanistan. But over the past five years, Cory has grown stronger, learning to speak again and stand again and walk again -- and earlier this year, he jumped out of a plane again.  The first words Cory said to me after his accident echoed those words first shouted all those years ago on this beach: "Rangers lead the way."  Cory Remsburg has come back today, along with Melvin, Jannise, Brian, and many of their fellow active duty service members. I ask them to stand or raise their hands, too. Thank you.  We are on this Earth for only a moment in time. And fewer of us have parents and grandparents to tell us about what the veterans of D-Day did here seventy years ago. So we have to tell their stories for them. We have to do our best to uphold in our own lives the values that they were prepared to die for. We have to honor those who carry forward that legacy today, recognizing that people cannot live in freedom unless free people are prepared to die for it.  And as today's wars come to an end, this generation of servicemen and women will step out of uniform. They, too, will build families and lives of their own. They, too, will become leaders in their communities, in politics, in commerce and industry -- the leaders we need for the beachheads of our time. God willing, they, too, will grow old in the land they helped keep free. And someday, future generations, whether seventy or seven hundred years hence, will gather at places like this to honor them -- and to say that these were generations of men and women who proved once again that the United States of America is and will remain the greatest force for freedom the world has ever known.  May God bless our veterans and all who served with them, including those who rest here in eternal peace. And may God bless all who serve today for the peace and security of our world. SHARE: Your family's D-Day stories READ: 70 years later, D-Day vet Jim 'Pee Wee' Martin jumps again READ: D-Day: Exploding the myths of the Normandy landings READ: Obama: D-Day vets' stories should remain 'seared into memory'  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/travel/dows-and-donkeys-island-coral/index.html	travel	Dhows and donkeys on the island built from coral - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 06:26:10 EDT 2014	Every week, Inside Africa takes its viewers on a journey across Africa, exploring the true diversity and depth of different cultures, countries and regions. Lamu, Kenya (CNN) -- In many ways, it seems like time has given Lamu a wide berth. The East African island, perched placidly off Kenya's coast, is home to one of the oldest continuously inhabited Swahili towns -- an ethnic group in East Africa who have lived here for more than 700 years. There are no cars on the island -- the streets are too narrow and winding. Instead, locals rely on donkeys for transport on the land, and dhows to travel throughout the archipelago. Now a UNESCO World Heritage Site, Lamu was once the most important international trade center in East Africa -- as is evidenced by the Arab, Indian, Persian and European influences in the local architecture. The most Swahili feature, however, is the use of coral stone, which reigns supreme throughout the island. Not only is coral stone strong, it's a few degrees cooler than cement, making it an ideal building resource in a region known for its sweltering heat. In fact, coral stone has a long history in the construction of Lamu, as is evidenced by the Takwa ruins -- the remains of what was once a thriving trading town. In the 16th and 17th centuries, Takwa attracted merchants from across the globe. "The Arabs were here, the Indians were here, the Chinese," says local historian Mohamed Ali. "The Swahili people used to trade with a lot of foreign people." Much like Lamu's more modern buildings, the relics of this ancient commercial hub are mainly made from coral stone and lime -- though foreign influences abound. "The Indians introduced arches and balconies," notes Ali. Foreigners -- lured by the charming architecture and relaxed way of life -- continue to flock to Lamu town, with many buying and renovating the old Swahili mansions, or simply building new ones. As a result, locals often find themselves outbid when buying property. Local artisan Swabry Maawy, for instance, recalls the difficulty he had in procuring his dream house. "I was so in love with this house. I put in an offer and people from Europe put their offer. I put in another offer, they put in another offer, and somehow I got it. It was very expensive for me," he says. He hopes to preserve the past with the building, especially as he sees more foreigners investing in Lamu's future, a new twist on its historic role as a hub for international trade. Gallery: Africa's most exciting architects Read: Mysterious 900-year-old stone kingdom  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/sport/tennis/tennis-bouchard-sharapova-halep/index.html	iSport	Sharapova fights back again to reach third French Open final in a row - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 12:00:37 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Maria Sharapova continued her run of tough three-set victories Thursday while Simona Halep maintained her flawless record of not dropping a set as the contrasting pair made it through to the title match at the French Open. The statuesque 1.88 meter Sharapova took two hours and 40 minutes to see off the semifinal challenge of Eugenie Bouchard, who came close to upsetting a player she idolized as a youngster growing up in Canada. Fourth seed Halep, a bundle of pugnacious energy at just 1.68 meters, was merely detained for 90 minutes in dispatching Germany's Andrea Petkovic 6-2 7-6 on the same Philippe Chatrier Court. The 22-year-old Halep is the first Romanian to reach a grand slam final in 34 years. Russia's Sharapova will be playing in her eighth, including her third in a row at the French Open, having won the title in 2012 and lost to Serena Williams last year. Sharapova has beaten Halep on the three occasions they have played, including the final on clay in Madrid earlier this year, but she will need to avoid the slow starts that have made her passage to the final so testing. Bouchard, just a few centimeters shorter than Sharapova and with the same powerful ground strokes, looked set to cause an upset when she achieved two breaks of service to take the opener 6-4. Seventh seed Sharapova steadied her nerves by taking an early break in the second set, but when Bouchard hit back to level at 5-5 it might have raised doubts for a lesser player than the four-time grand slam winner. She responded in the style of a champion by breaking Bouchard again to win the second set 7-5 before racing into a lead she never surrendered in the decider. Bouchard, who was playing in her second straight grand slam semifinal -- losing to eventual winner Li Na in Australia -- bravely saved four match points at 2-5 down but succumbed on the fifth. Sharapova had repeated her feat of her previous two matches against Samantha Stosur and then Garbine Muguruza, who shocked title holder Williams in the second round, by coming back from a set down to prevail. After her victory, the 27-year-old Sharapova paid tribute to her 18th-seeded opponent. "She played an unbelievable match. Her level was extremely high today and I am just fortunate to be the winner," Sharapova said in her court side interview. "I would prefer to win in two sets, but she started so well. It was tough losing the first set, but that's not when the match is over." Halep, whose manager Virginia Ruzici was champion at Roland Garros in 1978 and runner-up two years later to Chris Evert, was never seriously troubled against the German 28th seed Petkovic. Read: Gulbis: 'Female tennis players need to think about kids She raced to a 4-1 lead in just 14 minutes with two breaks of service and quickly closed out the opener. Petkovic rallied to lead 3-1 in the set but gave up the advantage immediately and always trailed in the tiebreak, which she lost 7-4. "It's very emotional to win and reach my first grand slam final," said Halep. "Andrea's a great player but I think I was a little bit stronger. I tried my best and did everything I could to win the match." Halep has risen swiftly through the ranks and won sixth titles in 2013 to be named the WTA's most improved player. A promising junior, her career stalled until she had breast reduction surgery four years ago, helping her to increase her athleticism around the court, much in evidence on her favorite surface of clay. Read: Sharapova survives scare to reach last four Read: Serena crashes out of French Open Read: Bieber fan Bouchard into grand slam semi  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/travel/airlines-want-tracking-technology-mh-370/index.html	travel	Airlines want tracking technology to prevent another MH370 - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 06:07:22 EDT 2014	CNN celebrates 100 years of commercial aviation with a week of programming presented by resident travel expert Richard Quest. Doha, Qatar (CNN) -- Making sure another plane is never "lost" again is the immediate priority for the airline industry, according to Tony Tyler CEO of the International Air Transport Association (IATA). The group has set up a taskforce comprised of airlines, pilots, flight safety organizations and flight tracking and navigation service providers to try and ensure a mystery like flight MH370 is not repeated. "We're going to be focusing on the tracking of aircraft and not streaming of data," said Tyler at the group's annual meeting, in Doha, Qatar, adding that it will deliver a report in September recommending what changes airlines should take, although they won't be mandatory. The streaming of data is not the focus, said Tyler, as tracking is "the most urgent first step and can be done relatively easily." "There are a lot more issues that come into play when it comes into the streaming of data. If you start having streaming from 100,000 flights a day, you're going to end up with masses of data and that may be manageable or may be not manageable." Read: How airlines make 'less than $6 per passenger' Currently a mix of radar, satellite and voice communications tracks aircraft. A one-size-fits-all tracking solution might not work, cautions Kevin Hiatt, senior vice president for Safety and Flight Operations for IATA. While the technology to track aircraft better is already available there is an equipment issue. "Not all aircraft are equipped the same, it's just like an automobile, there are different options you can fit in the aircraft, so we'll explore what options are currently onboard and see how it can be used to fill this gap. "Maybe some carriers already have what they need to start and there might be some that have absolutely nothing and have to start." Many airline CEOs have committed to improving tracking no matter the cost. "We're already doing quite a lot," said Willie Walsh, CEO of International Airlines Group. "We routinely send position messages with our ACARS messages and that's something we've done for many years an something we'll continue to do. We send ACARS messages every 30 minutes. "By this time next year (the airline industry) will have cracked this." ACARS is a data link for sending messages between planes and ground facilities that was developed in the 1970s. Just five years ago Air France suffered a tragedy when flight AF447 crashed into the Atlantic Ocean en route from Rio de Janeiro to Paris. The accident brought to public attention that in some locations, such as over ocean areas, the precise location of an aircraft is not known all the time. "We don't totally track aircraft as there are areas of the world that don't have coverage that allow us to track them with what we would conventionally think of as a GPS or some type a ping that has a geographic location," said Hiatt. However, after the incident, the airline, independent of any industry-wide report, made changes to how its planes communicate their location and can be found in an emergency. One was improving the battery life of the black box recorder to three months, the second concerned the frequency with which the plane communicates with land. "Flight data is now sent from the plane every 10 minutes," said Alexandre de Juniac, CEO of Air France-KLM. If a plane deviates from its initial flight plan we send a message every minute to our dispatch office in Paris ... to say that something is wrong. So the tracking is much more accurate and we know minute by minute where the plane is. "We have the equipment on board; it's a decision plus some investment to increase the frequency of the messages." Another issue facing airlines and pilots is the question of making something tamper-proof. Manufacturers say that can mean devices that won't be able to be switched off in-flight. "Speaking as a former pilot myself, if I had a particular piece of kit in the cockpit and I wanted to stop it smoking or being on fire, I could disable that," said Hiatt. "Now they're saying they want to take that away from the pilot. So there are some diverse opinions which will be explored." Read: Is this the future of aviation?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/sport/golf/golf-mickelson-goosen-memphis/index.html	iSport	Phil Mickelson beats the storms in Memphis - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 06:18:15 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Phil Mickelson beat the storms to stake an early claim for victory at the St. Jude Classic in Memphis Thursday, the final warmup event for the U.S. Open. It's been a season to forget so far for the five-time major winner, with no top 10 finishes on the PGA Tour and the added distraction of a visit from the FBI at the Memorial last week. Mickelson confirmed he was under investigation for alleged insider trading, strongly denying any wrongdoing, as he battled to a 49th placed finish behind Hideki Matsumyama of Japan. Read: Mickelson: I have done nothing wrong Hardly ideal preparation in the buildup to the only major to elude him, with Pinehurst No.2 hosting the U.S. Open next week. But last year he finished second in the corresponding tournament before his sixth runner-up spot at the U.S. Open and his three-under-par 67 served notice he could make a similar challenge. It left the 43-year-old Mickelson a shot behind then leaders Retief Goosen and Troy Merritt when play was suspended for inclement weather, but that deficit was extended to four when Ben Crane completed a personal season's best of 63 after the action resumed. Crane, a four-time winner on the PGA Tour but without a victory since 2011, is recovering from back problems that have hampered him since late last season. "To be playing has been a blessing, but I haven't played well at all," said the 38-year-old, who was two clear when the day ended due to darkness. "I'm excited to be healthy and start finding my game. It's really encouraging." Peter Malnati birdied two of his last three holes to card a 65 to be tied for second with Billy Horschel, who will complete his last two holes on Friday. Two-time U.S. Open champion Goosen was in a group of five players tied for fourth on 66, with Australian veteran Stuart Appleby yet to finish his opening round along with Americans Zach Johnson and Jason Bohn. Goosen finished strongly with three birdies in his last four holes, a contrast with the rest of the season where the back nine has proved a problem. Read: Grace holds off heroes Goosen and Els "It's something I've been struggling with, finishing the round strong," said the South African, searching for his first PGA Tour win since 2009. He has slipped to 217 in the world rankings, troubled by back problems. "My back is feeling probably the best now it has felt for probably six, seven years," the 45-year-old said. Merritt double-bogeyed the last to drop back to a tie for ninth with Mickelson in a big group, many of whom had yet to complete their rounds.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/europe/tony-vaccaro-wwii-soldier-armed-with-camera/index.html	world	D-Day through a lens: 'First the rifle, then photographs' - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 05:45:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Seventy years ago, thousands of Allied troops stormed the beaches of Normandy to take on the might of the German army. The soldiers all carried guns and grenades, but Private Tony Vaccaro of the U.S. Army was armed with something else as well: a camera. In the days, weeks and months that followed the D-Day landings in northern France, Vaccaro, who was born in Pennsylvania, took more than 8,000 photographs with his trusty 35mm Argus C3. The pictures -- many of them raw, graphic, disturbing -- follow his advance, and that of his unit, the 83rd Infantry Division, from the beaches to Berlin. They represent one of the most complete collections of images of World War II, as seen through the eyes of someone who fought during the conflict. Now a spritely 92-year-old, the former G.I. is back in Normandy to mark the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings with an exhibition. Vaccaro's show, "Shots of War" is on display at the Caen Memorial, a stone's throw from Omaha Beach where the infantryman came ashore 70 years ago. "The first thing I see is this gun, looking at me," he told CNN on a tour of the exhibition, gesturing at a black-and-white photo of the intimidating weaponry that confronted him as he stepped onto French soil. Vaccaro's status as a regular soldier who happened to be carrying a camera -- rather than an official war photographer -- meant he had to make do with whatever equipment he could find. After begging and borrowing rolls of film, he would process his pictures by night, improvising by pouring chemicals into two army helmets to develop and fix the images. But it also meant he could get closer to the action, and to the people involved: the result is a series of photos which are often more candid than the official pictures of war. "I was with the same unit, I knew everyone intimately," he says. "The intimacy was at such a level that if I aimed a camera, they didn't react to it." Vaccaro documented the devastation left in Normandy in the wake of D-Day and across Luxemburg, Belgium and Germany after years of warfare: villages and towns ravaged by the conflict, corpses lining the roads. He also captured some of the joys of liberation: a shot of a G.I. embracing a young French girl as others dance in the background is among his best-known images. In a short film made to accompany the exhibition, Vaccaro explains that his dual role as soldier and photographer meant he faced a constant choice between his gun and his camera. "I considered the situation and I said 'first the rifle, then photographs' -- I was careful to make sure I would take photographs when I felt safe. If I didn't feel safe I didn't take the picture." And he says that the speed at which he was forced to work also had an impact on the final images. "Sometimes I was scared because I felt that while I was taking photographs perhaps the Nazis would kill me, would shoot me, so what I did was to work very quickly. Many times I didn't even look through the viewfinder, I just shot." After the war, Vaccaro became a professional portrait and fashion photographer, working for magazines including "Life" and "Look," taking pictures of stars including Charlie Chaplin, Marlene Dietrich, Pablo Picasso and Sophia Loren. Decades on, Vaccaro says he is disturbed at our failure to learn the lessons of the past and ensure that conflicts like the one he fought in -- and photographed -- are consigned to history. "I think that the world, the way it's going, it hasn't changed at all. You'd think we would learn a lesson with World War II but we are arming like hell," he says. "One of the greatest thing we should have, we don't have. A Department of Peace, we don't have it. You'd be surprised the need that we have to have that." He has returned to Normandy many times in the decades since D-Day, and he's determined that this 70th anniversary visit won't be his last. "I'm going to do this at 102," he insists, saying he'll be back in 2024. "My doctor says: 'I don't know how you do it.'" READ MORE: 'It's too early to forget,' insists veteran  READ MORE: The myths and reality of D-Day  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/europe/d-day-training-mission/index.html	world	Secret D-Day training mission cost hundreds of lives - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 02:56:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Laurie Bolton believes the remains of her Uncle Louis rest at the bottom of the English Channel, with those of other American servicemen who perished in a little-known D-Day training mission that went horribly wrong. Bolton considers newly discovered sonar images of two sunken ships proof of this hallowed ground. Divers recently planted an American flag on the ruins. "This is a burial ground, so it's very important," she told CNN. "My uncle's body was never recovered, and I believe he's still down there." On April 28, 1944, the beaches at Slapton Sands along the south coast of England were being used as a training ground because they provided similar conditions to what American troops would encounter in Normandy less than two months later. Thousands of area residents were evacuated. The full-scale rehearsal for the Utah Beach landing included live fire and fully equipped troops to make it as real as possible. The disastrous mission was kept secret, survivors threatened with court-martial if they revealed what happened. Under the cover of night, an American convoy headed out into Lyme Bay, some 15 miles off the coast. The plan was for the ships to organize in the same formations as the D-Day invasion, turn back toward the English beaches and simulate a landing. A small British warship escorted the convoy, according to U.S. military documents chronicling the mission. A larger destroyer that was to escort the convoy remained behind for repairs, leaving the ships vulnerable, according to a study by military historian Charles Brown MacDonald. Around 2 a.m., German torpedo boats opened fire on the convoy, sinking two landing ship tanks, or LSTs, causing a loss of life greater than that suffered on Utah Beach on June 6, 1944, according to U.S. military documents. According to declassified military documents, 749 American servicemen lost their lives during Exercise Tiger. Some have suggested the tally was higher; others say it was lower. Fewer than 200 servicemen were killed or wounded at Utah Beach on D-Day, according to statistics from the Center for Military History. Louis Bolton was killed instantly. "Many of the men didn't have a chance," his niece, a California resident, told CNN. "It was pitch black. The men didn't have time to react, and many of them ended up drowning with all the heavy gear strapped on their backs." Louis Bolton was 19 and newly married. His family thought he'd be safe during his deployment to Europe. "He looked so handsome in his Army uniform and we were so proud of him," said Bolton's sister Shirley in a letter. "We weren't too worried about his safety, as he had been assigned to the 607th Graves Registration Company, so he wouldn't be on the front lines." Paul Gerolstein, 22 at the time and a gunner's mate aboard one of the LSTs, said the loss of life was astonishing. "I climbed down the cargo net and just tried to grab as many people as I could," said Gerolstein, 93. A third LST was hit in the stern. James Brown, then 20, scrambled onto the deck. "When I got up there, I saw two of the LSTs on fire," Brown, a West Virginia native, told CNN. "That was the only light we had. I could hear the German torpedo boats buzzing near us, but I couldn't see them." He added, "Men were on fire jumping off our ship. To this day, I still see those men jumping with their gear on into the water." A hospital corpsman, Brown, 91, tried to tend to the wounded. "I put a tourniquet on the leg of a guy near me, but there wasn't much else I could do for him. The whole scene was horrific," said Brown. A "typographical error in orders" put the LSTs on a different radio frequency than their escort ship and the British naval headquarters ashore, according to MacDonald's study. The British escort ship allegedly failed to alert the U.S. ships to the German boats because its crew assumed the original notice had already been relayed. "Whether an absence of either or both of those factors would have had any effect on the tragic events that followed would be impossible to say -- but probably not," MacDonald wrote. In April, autonomous underwater vehicle manufacturer Hydroid and Britain's Royal Navy Maritime Autonomous System Trials Team produced the first high-definition sonar images of the two LST wreck sites. The unmanned underwater vehicle they used is designed to perform intricate oceanographic surveys over large areas and equipped with multiple sonar instruments that capture images of the wreck sites. The company data shows that both LSTs are about 50 meters below the surface and reach 6 to 8 meters above the seafloor. "We hope that the data collected on this mission will shed additional light on this tragic event and help bring some closure to the families who lost their loved ones during Exercise Tiger," said Richard "Bungy" Williams, regional manager of Hydroid Europe. Laurie Bolton has visited England several times with Exercise Tiger veterans. Her uncle's death remained a mystery for months after the attack. In May 1944, his family received a letter from the military saying he was missing in action, Laurie Bolton said. Three months later, another letter said he died in action. Brown said that hours after the failed exercise, he and other survivors were locked in a room and addressed by a military officer. "The lieutenant ... tells us we cannot divulge any information about what happened or else we'll be court-martialed," he said. "That scared us." Details of the training exercise attack were kept secret until August 1944 out of fear that it would jeopardize the D-Day operation, according to military documents. Brown says he didn't speak to anyone about Exercise Tiger until 1987. "Even years after the war was over, I felt that I was still under an obligation not to say anything," he said. "When you're in the service and you're told something, you stick to it." As a result of Exercise Tiger, the Army took note of several "deficiencies which were rectified for the invasion." Defective lifebelts, faulty alarm systems aboard the LSTs, and flawed lifeboat protocols were among the concerns the Army addressed for D-Day. More than 156,000 troops crossed the English Channel during the D-Day invasion approximately six weeks later. Nearly 10,000 Allied troops were killed or wounded. "Any kind of practice has got to have some good points," Brown said of D-Day's deadly rehearsal. "It sure didn't feel like it right after. "  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/business/opinion-ecb-woodruff/index.html	iBUSINESS	Opinion: Draghi needs to realize gas pedal is already on the floor - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 10:48:26 EDT 2014	Editor's note: David Woodruff is associate professor of comparative politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science. He is researching the politics of the eurozone crisis. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely his. (CNN) -- Mario Draghi is stepping on the gas, cutting interest rates to record lows, trying to funnel money into the real economy, and introducing a charge on banks that hold excess reserves with the European Central Bank. He is right to worry. Eurozone inflation is running at less than 1% a year, with several countries already experiencing falling prices. Deflation, and even very low inflation, can be a huge drag on economic activity. There's no encouragement to spend today to avoid higher prices tomorrow -- indeed, falling prices make putting off purchases attractive. Flat or falling prices also make it harder for businesses and consumers to pay off the debts left over from the financial crisis, increasing their reluctance to invest and spend. In the grip of these forces, Japan suffered two decades of stagnation. The eurozone's recovery is already stalling, and a deflationary downward spiral would be a disaster. Unfortunately, Draghi is likely to discover the ECB's gas pedal is already on the floor. There's no way to push money into the economy unless businesses and consumers are ready to borrow it to invest and spend. Today's measures are designed to encourage banks to look harder for borrowers. They aim to do this by lowering banks' costs of borrowing, by imposing some small costs on banks that sit on money rather than lending it out, and by making it cheaper for banks to borrow from the ECB to fund lending to small businesses. But the banks wouldn't be sitting on money in the first place if they had credit-worthy business clients eager to take out loans. Indeed, rather than clamoring for new loans from the ECB, the banks have been paying down existing ones. What is needed are policies addressed not to lenders, but to potential borrowers and spenders, who are holding back because of the dismal prospects for growth. A significant chunk of responsibility lies on the shoulders of Draghi and other ECB leaders for the eurozone's utter failure to construct a plausible model for growth since the crisis. After a brief period of fiscal stimulus in 2009, the eurozone has pursued an austerity agenda that compounds the weakness of private demand by shrinking public demand. Draghi and his predecessor Jean-Claude Trichet did all they could to ensure monetary easing was accompanied by fiscal tightening, in effect refusing to hit the gas pedal unless governments were standing on the brakes. This seemingly bizarre policy does have a rationale. The idea is to force the countries of the eurozone periphery become more competitive through cutting costs and especially wages, enabling growth through exports rather than domestic demand. To some extent, the policy has worked: savage levels of unemployment and ECB-backed measures to reduce labor bargaining power have lowered costs in the periphery. By the end of 2013, exports accounted for over 27% of eurozone GDP, up from 23% on the eve of the financial crisis. Further, the eurozone trade surplus exceeded 3% of GDP. These figures are the highest since the introduction of the euro. Despite these unprecedented developments, eurozone growth remains exceedingly weak. That demonstrates the deep intellectual failure behind the austerity-competitiveness agenda. The rickety export-led growth model faces another important threat: the euro's dramatic appreciation. Draghi's famous July 2012 pledge to do "whatever it takes" to preserve the euro stopped the flight from sovereign bonds and other euro-denominated financial assets. Trade surpluses also tend to promote currency appreciation. The stronger euro raises the prices of the currency bloc's businesses versus their competitors, reversing a substantial portion of the painfully won competitiveness gain. This accounts for the efforts of Draghi and others to talk the euro down, but the effect has not offset the appreciation. While Draghi clearly hopes that today's measures will further weaken the euro, they are unlikely to have much effect. For all their exceptional character, today's ECB measures are, at best, efforts to shore up a fundamentally misguided growth model that is doomed to collapse. A serious policy to fight deflation requires putting both feet on the gas, with monetary stimulus and fiscal stimulus working together, a model that has had some success in Japan. It requires abandoning the mirage of export-led growth as a savior for the eurozone, and vigorous efforts to stoke demand by increasing government spending and promoting wage growth. Only this will lead to a virtuous circle of borrowing, lending, and growth, and a sustainable rate of price growth. But Draghi's statement today revealed how very far he is from recognizing this point. He once again reiterated his support for austerity-led policies whose only coherent rationale is to promote falling (or at best stagnant) prices in the eurozone's periphery: in other words, precisely the deflation he claims to wish to avoid. Until this fundamental contradiction is resolved, the eurozone is going nowhere. Read more: ECB cuts rates to head off deflation risk  Read more: Europe may be recovering, but crisis not over for us  Read more: What will Europe do? The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/asia/china-eastern-lightning-killing/index.html	world	Eastern Lightning: Alleged kidnappings, murder and a female Christ - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 12:30:39 EDT 2014	Hong Kong (CNN) -- The group was approaching fellow diners at a McDonald's restaurant in an eastern Chinese city on a recent Wednesday night, asking for their cellphone numbers, when one woman refused. What happened next, captured by terrified onlookers on their cellphone cameras and later replayed in news reports, would shock the Chinese public and trigger an official crackdown on what Beijing has characterized as a dangerous doomsday "cult." "Go to hell, demon," one of the accused, Zhang Lidong, yelled as he beat the woman with a steel mop handle, telling her she would "never come back in the next reincarnation." Other members of the group threatened diners that they would kill anyone who intervened, reported Chinese state media. By the time police arrived at the fast food outlet in the city of Zhaoyuan, in the eastern Chinese province of Shandong, they found the victim, a 37-year-old mother named Wu Shuoyan, lying in a pool of blood. Zhang was kicking and stomping her while a boy beat her with the mop handle, state media reported; within the hour, she was pronounced dead at a local hospital. Five adults have been charged, along with a minor, with murder over the May 28 attack -- Zhang Lidong, Zhang Fan, Lyu Yingchun, Zhang Hang, Zhang Qiaolian. They are all members of the Church of Almighty God ("Quannengshen"), Zhaoyuan police said in a statement. State television subsequently broadcast an interview with Zhang Lidong in his cell, in which he confessed to the killing but expressed no remorse. "She was a demon," he said, telling the interviewer that he and his co-accused were members of the church. "She was an evil spirit." Authorities said the accused were likely gathering the phone numbers to find potential new recruits when Wu's refusal angered them, state media reported. Struggle with the 'great red dragon' Also known as Eastern Lightning ("Dongfang Shandian"), the group preaches that Christ has been reincarnated as a woman from central China, and that the righteous are engaged in an apocalyptic struggle against China's Communist Party -- which they refer to as the "great red dragon." Linked to kidnappings, violence and extortion, the group has been listed among 14 banned religious groups by China's Ministry of Public Security since 1995. Emily Dunn, an Asian studies academic at the University of Melbourne who wrote her doctoral thesis on the group, said its illegal status had made it paranoid and secretive, with members often only knowing each other by aliases, so they could not incriminate each other if detained by authorities. "It's about as illegal and politically sensitive as religion gets in China," she said. "As the government has cracked down more, Eastern Lightning's rhetoric has escalated against the government." China's Academy of Social Sciences says there are now 23 million Christians in the country. But with many belonging to non-sanctioned, underground "house churches," experts believe the true number of Chinese Christians could be much higher. Eastern Lightning, part of a tradition of heterodox, quasi-Christian religious movements in China, was estimated as having between several hundred thousand and one million members, said Dunn. It was viewed by Beijing as the most serious threat to public stability of any of the Christian-affiliated movements that have been growing rapidly as China undergoes a religious revival, she said. "There have been reports of murders and beatings at the hands of the group, but also at a more general level, very aggressive proselytizing, harassment, brainwashing," said Dunn. "Those accusations are very routine." An 'evil cult'? Chinese police have released material to Christian pastors warning of the group's activities. In one video, it describes the group as "a classic example of an evil cult that takes the name of a fake religion to carry out actions harmful to others." It accused the group of spreading lies, scamming money, endangering lives, deceiving the public, attacking the government and undermining social stability. Members of the Church of Almighty God who operate the group's English-language website responded to a request for comment from CNN, stipulating in an emailed reply that "our church doesn't exactly have a spokesperson because nobody can fully represent" the group. The response stated that it was "very natural" for the Chinese government to blame the killing in Zhaoyuan on the group, as it was the "stock-in-trade" of the Chinese Communist Party to slander then suppress those that disagreed with it. The statement argued that the Tiananman Square massacre, Tibet and the suppression of the banned Falun Gong religious movement are examples of such a pattern. "They always find some excuse in advance and fabricate things and slander them," said the statement. "Then they draw up some rumors as the basis for their attack and make false charges, and then they carry out their bloody suppression." The group -- which believes that Christ has returned and began his work in China in 1992, and that only those who accepted his "end-time work" would be saved -- had been persecuted since its inception, read the statement. It concluded what the group said were the words of "the end-time Christ": "God does not participate in human politics, but God controls the destiny of every nation and race," read the statement. "We all believe that the thing God will accomplish cannot be hindered by any nation or any force, and that those who obstruct God's work, resist God's word, and disturb and damage God's plan will eventually be punished by God. If a man resists God's work, God will cast this man into hell; if a nation resists God's work, God will destroy this nation." A female Christ? Eastern Lightning was founded in the early 1990s by Zhao Weishan, a physics teacher with a history of membership of radical quasi-Christian sects, who preached about a female Christ figure hailing from China, said Dunn. The group's moniker was drawn from a verse in the New Testament: "For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be". In a video produced by Chinese police warning about the group, it is claimed that Zhao first became a member of a radical religious movement, known as the Shouters, in 1987. It said he honed his expertise at religious "scams" there, before branching off in 1989 with a movement, based in Heilongjiang Province, elevating himself as the object of veneration. When the group was broken up by authorities, said the video, Zhao abandoned his family and fled to Shandong and Henan provinces. He teamed up with a woman 20 years his junior, and began preaching that she was the Female Christ, with himself as the new movement's high priest, according to the video. The police referred to the woman as Yang Xiangbin; Dunn said she was also known to followers as "Lightning" Deng, although the group had released statements online denying this was the case. "But they don't say whether she's still alive or where she is or what her name is," she said. "They don't tell you anything but that she was a middle-aged woman who was inspired by God and God spoke to her, so she started speaking God's word." The police video said Zhao fled to the United States in 2000. Kidnappings, assaults alleged The sensational nature of Wu's killing triggered an outpouring of revulsion towards the group in Chinese social media. But it is not the first time the movement has been in the spotlight. In December 2012, Chinese authorities rounded up hundreds of Eastern Lightning members when the group proclaimed, via loud public protests, that the end of the world was imminent. The state-run China Daily reported that in October and November 1998, the group was responsible for a spate of robberies and assaults in China's central Henan Province that left victims' limbs broken and ears cut off. And in 2002, the group allegedly kidnapped 34 evangelical Christian leaders belonging to the China Gospel Fellowship by posing as representatives of a theological institute from Singapore, holding them for two months in an effort to convert them, said Dunn. The kidnapping episode reflected a longstanding strategy from Eastern Lightning to try to co-opt entire congregations -- whether underground "house churches," or state-sanctioned Protestant and Catholic churches -- by converting their leaders, she said. To this end, they were said to use tactics including seducing, extorting or threatening pastors. But most Eastern Lightning converts were middle-aged Christian women, said Dunn, with many hailing from impoverished rural areas, although the movement seemed to be increasingly penetrating wealthier urban areas. The group appealed to potential recruits through a promise of saving them from impending disaster or fatal disease, and had a reputation for strong-arm tactics. "People are encouraged to door-knock, to pressure everyone they know to join the group. They send out evangelists throughout China," she said. "Their message is that if you don't join, you're more likely to go to hell or perhaps drop dead from cancer or God's judgment in some other form." A foothold in Hong Kong Kevin Yeung is the general-secretary of Hong Kong's Concern Group on Newly Emerged Religions, an organization formed by various evangelical Christian churches in the Chinese territory to monitor the growth of new religions, provide public information about the groups and assist those looking to leave. Affiliated churches report to the group when members of their congregations are approached by or defect to cult-like new religious movements, he said. He told CNN his group had been monitoring Eastern Lightning since 2008, but had noted an increasingly aggressive push by the group to convert Christians in the territory over the past two years. He estimated Eastern Lightning had approached members of about 500 churches in Hong Kong, and won about 2,000 converts. Their prime targets were middle-aged women from the Mainland, he said. His group had concerns about Eastern Lightning, as members typically heard reports that those who converted would often spend virtually all their waking hours with other members of the movement, damaging their ties with their families. Dennis Balcombe, an American pastor who preaches in China for the Revival Christian Church, told CNN he had spoken to people from many churches that had "lost a lot of people to the cult." "We don't hear of people coming out of it," he said. "It's like a mafia -- once you're in it, how do you get out?" Balcombe said he had a run-in with the group when four members came to his office in Hong Kong one Sunday in an apparent attempt to convert him. When he accused them of being Eastern Lightning and tried to photograph them, they physically attacked him, he said, showing CNN pictures taken during the alleged assault. Elements of the group's operation seemed like a pyramid scheme, he said. Unfairly persecuted: Lawyer But human rights lawyer Teng Biao, who has previously acted as defense lawyer for the banned spiritual movement Falun Gong, said the group had a right to its beliefs, and should not be persecuted by the government for subscribing to an unorthodox faith. "A believer can be jailed for years only because he or she gives materials to other people," he said. "It's okay to punish a criminal, that's okay. But the problem is that the government not only punishes the criminals, but the whole religious group -- even when they didn't commit any crimes." China has a long history of disruptive quasi-Christian movements, said Dunn. The Taiping Rebellion, a civil war in southern China which claimed over 20 million lives from 1850-1864, was a millenarian movement led by a figure who claimed to be the younger brother of Jesus. It is credited with hastening the fall of the Qing Dynasty. Dunn said she believed Beijing's suppression of unauthorized Christian groups, or "house churches," had assisted Eastern Lightning's success, saying it made it more difficult for the faithful "to tell one underground organization talking about a Christ from another." CNN's Zoe Li, Dayu Zhang and Serena Dong contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/sport/football/brazil-sex-world-cup-football/index.html	iSport	Sex and soccer: Should teams abstain during the World Cup? - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 10:28:03 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- The Mexicans will be abstaining, one German is more open-minded while the Bosnians will only have themselves for company. It's a debate as old as time -- should football stars keep it clean between the sheets to maximise athletic performance? U.S. national team coach Jurgen Klinsmann is taking a relaxed view on in-competition coitus during the 2014 World Cup. "I think we are very casual in the way we approach things," Klinsmann, a World Cup winner in 1990 with Germany, told Fusion TV. "Their families can come pretty much any time. They will be at the games, they can come by at the hotel, we will have barbecues together. "Every nation is different. I've played in different countries where, you know, you didn't see your girlfriend or your wife for two months. ... Every team and every country handles that differently, based on their culture. "So I respect the Mexican approach because it's more their culture at that moment. I think we have a group of guys together and an environment together that is very open, very casual. "But once we go on the field for training and also for the games, we are very serious and down to business." As Klinsmann suggested, the Mexicans will be adopting a more chaste approach, with "El Tri" coach Miguel Herrera warning his players to restrain from sexual activity during the month-long tournament. "If a player can't go one month or 20 days without having sexual relations, then they are not prepared to be a professional player," Herrera told Mexican newspaper Reforma. "All the players we have selected have a pretty good resume, they all have won great things, they have been champions, and they know what we want to achieve. "So then we will not be looking for sex or having sex at the World Cup just to have it, we are going to go after what we came for, a competition that gives us the opportunity to rise above and do something really great. ... We talked about it because there was a buzz." Music to the ears of Bosnia-Herzegovina's coach Safet Susic, who according to British newspaper the Daily Star, told his players "there will be no sex in Brazil." Yet Susic, who is leading Bosnia at its first major tournament, has allowed one small concession. "They can find another solution, they can even masturbate if they want. I am not interested what the other coaches do, this is not a holiday trip, we are there to play football at the World Cup." Do you think footballers should be allowed to have sex at the World Cup? Let us know in the comments below Read: Sticker obsession sweeping the world Read: How to beat your "inner chimp"  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/europe/lech-walesa-poland-today/index.html	world	Former president Lech Walesa reflects on Poland's past - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 03:15:18 EDT 2014	Editor's note: 25 years since Poland's first partly free elections, CNN's On the Road series visits the country looking at how it has been transformed since the fall of communism while taking a deeper look at its customs and culture. (CNN) -- Former president of Poland, Lech Walesa, was a founder of the Solidarity trade union group that helped bring about about the downfall of communism in Poland in 1989. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1983 and was the country's president from 1990 to 1995. His eponymous Lech Walesa Institute was set up in 1995 to support concepts of independence, ethics and state decentralization. CNN asked him about his recollections from 25 years ago and his thoughts on the future of Poland. CNN: What are you strongest memories from this time 25 years ago? Lech Walesa: I prefer to look at today and tomorrow. Sometimes, however, it's good to take a look back to learn a lesson from the past. There have been so many events with influence on the present time that they form a chain of events reaching back much further than 1989. It all dates back to 1970, when the social discontent reached its peak and forced many of us to take to the streets. Next, we witnessed the election of Karol Wojtya to the Papacy, the August Agreements, the creation of Solidarity, the imposition of martial law, the Round Table Talks, the partially-free election in 1989, then my presidency as a seal of freedom and lastly the admission of Poland to NATO and to the European Union. I consider all these elements to be consecutive links in the chain of freedom, without which neither Poland nor Europe would be free. CNN: What was the biggest challenge you faced personally during your days with Solidarity before 1989? Lech Walesa: The most important one was to persevere in unity. To stick to our goal. Not to be broken down. And yet we were so badly impacted by martial law. In prison we went through an ordeal. We were not broken down. Our faith was never shaken. It was strengthened by what happened in August 1980. This is our great victory. At that time, nobody expected us to succeed. We had a vivid memory of the tragic events of December 1970. We knew we had to work together. Already on the first day we set up an Inter-Enterprise Strike Committee and started to work on the demands. We eventually managed to hammer out 21 demands, which were signed on December 31st together with the government, which was represented by Mieczysaw Jagielski. This was our greatest challenge and greatest victory. Soon after, our tiny union had 10 million members all over Poland. The 1980s were a time of struggle to build an organization and its structures. It was also a fight for unity and perseverance in the path we had chosen. Although weakened, we were not defeated and so we lasted until 1988 and 1989. We lost a couple of battles, but we won the war for democracy and freedom. It's because we were working in solidarity. And the world was in solidarity with us. CNN: What gave you the strength to continue the struggle against the communist government in Poland? What qualities do you think you had that made you do what you did? Lech Walesa: This is made up of several things. One of them was our faith that this sick, unfair system must finally collapse. We didn't know how to make it happen, how to get organized so as not to repeat the mistakes made in 1970 (during the protests). In my opinion, divine providence helped us at this stage. It's then that a Pole who became pope helped us to organize ourselves in prayer and also made us understand our inner strength. His regular visits to Poland, although hindered by the communist authorities, played this role. The masses celebrated by the Holy Father gathered millions of Poles. We could see that we were many, that we were millions. Before that, we had been scattered and divided. It was the first time in post-war Poland that the Polish nation had joined forces on such a massive scale. I'm sure that had there been no pontificate of John Paul II, the Fall of Communism wouldn't have happened as quickly or as peacefully as it did. The Holy Father did not call us to fight, but gathered us in prayer. And we were able to match actions with words. CNN: Do you have any regrets from your life during the anti-communist days? Lech Walsa: Concerning our peaceful struggle, I have no regrets whatsoever. Of course, when I look at it today, from the perspective of years, I wish I had done a few things differently, but as for the path we took, I wouldn't have changed it. Despite such a great victory, I have a feeling that I missed something. When I was fighting, when I was repeatedly arrested and in prison or when I traveled all over the country to coordinate the activity of unions, my wife and the children were left behind at home. Regrettably, I was not with them. It's probably my greatest failure: I was not with my family when they needed me most. For this I want to thank my wife Danuta. For the fact that she put up with me and brought up our children to be good people. CNN: How do you see Poland today? Lech Walesa: We are now in a very different place, in a new era. Today we can say with confidence that we live in a democratic Poland, in a firmly established free market economic system, in a country built on solid foundations of international cooperation and in a country of high aspirations and hopes for further development. Our success has been noticed. There are many who point to Poland as an example of wise economic policy. We are amongst the few countries that emerged from the financial crisis relatively unscathed. The 2012 European Championship was another type of promotion of Poland and an opportunity to show off our achievements. I'm also very happy to see that even those projects, which seemed doomed to failure due to the very last decisions of the communists, have in fact been able to be saved, such as my beloved Gdask Shipyard, the cradle of "Solidarity". Today it is slowly rising to its feet again and building ships after many years of struggle and hope for its rescue; there is a chance that jobs can be safeguarded and that the symbol of the Polish transformation can be saved. This fills me with happiness, even if the costs of transformation were high. Today Poland is a truly beautiful, modern and open country. CNN: Is it the country today as you hoped it would be when you cast your vote in June 1989? Lech Walesa: Back in 1989, nothing was a foregone conclusion. We had to build a state system almost from scratch. The difficult (political and economic) reforms of minister of finance Leszek Balcerowicz and the prime minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki allowed us to make further changes. In conjunction with Boris Yeltsin, I negotiated the withdrawal of Red Army troops from Poland. We then became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and today we are also a member of the European Union. At that time, I didn't even dream that we would manage to achieve all that, and in such a short time. It's true, Poland as we see it today is beyond anything we could have dreamt of at that time. However, I regret that not everything worked out as it should have. My presidency ended after five years and I had a plan that would have required two terms to fully realize. Later on, the politics of Aleksander Kwaniewski were not in line with my concept. CNN: Do you think democracy in Poland and other former communist states is in good shape? Lech Walesa: It might seem so, but we still have a problem with the sense of responsibility for the country amongst our citizens. We recently held the election to the European Parliament, a very important election, in which decided who would be representing us at the European Union. The average turnout throughout the EU was low -- only 43%. In Poland, however, it stood at 23%. And even lower than that in Slovakia and in the Czech Republic. It's alarming. First we expect "old Europe" to accept us and treat us on an equal footing and then we renounce our right to vote. Moreover, parties with extremist views are on the rise. These parties promote ideas that contradict democracy and the European Union's reason for existence. We must therefore wake up, because if we continue to be indifferent, we may ourselves destroy our great dream of international solidarity. On the other hand, I'm a 100% democrat and if parties with such an outlook on life enter the parliament, I have no choice but to accept it. I only call for votes during the next election to be cast in a well-conceived manner. CNN: What is the biggest challenge facing Poland and Polish society today? Lech Walesa: The biggest challenge for Poland, Europe and the world is the reshuffling and widening of structures. I have already been saying it for quite some time: we must evolve past thinking in terms of the nation state and the European state. We live in an era of intellect, information and globalization. We live under new conditions that require us to create a totally different set of programs and structures. It's a task not only for Poland, but also for the entire population of contemporary Europe and the world at large. Our present systems do not meet our current needs. The new era offers us new challenges. We who destroyed communism, whose downfall has triggered a domino effect of transformation throughout Europe, should provide an example and inspiration for the entire world. We must show how to change even the most difficult reality through purely democratic means, without the use of violence. Today we must ask ourselves which world we are going to built in this new era and how democracy and globalization are going to look. For a long time already, I have been calling for the development of a Decalogue of universal values that would serve as a lasting reference point for this new Europe and the world. We must define and accept laws establishing common principles, which would allow nations and religions to co-exist in a spirit of respect for differences and friendly cooperation. Once such a universal basis is established, we will succeed in building lasting and safe communities. Otherwise it may be hard to maintain the world as it is at present. CNN translated the original answers which were written in Polish. Read more about CNN's sponsorship policy. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/travel/follow-me-to-hong-kong/index.html	travel	Sexy couple, great photos -- 'Follow Me To' project comes to Hong Kong - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 02:20:16 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's a sweltering May afternoon in Hong Kong. In Tsim Sha Tsui, facing the city's iconic skyline, a Russian couple poses -- a slender woman with impeccable style drags her boyfriend by the hand toward the skyscrapers across the harbor. Nearby, a hoard of journalists takes their own pictures of this couple taking pictures. It's all for a perfect Instagram shot. This is the couple behind, or in front of, the "Follow Me To" project. The images of Natalia Zakharova leading her photographer boyfriend, Murad Osmann, toward exotic, picturesque locations around the globe took off last year, and Osmann's Instagram account now has more than 1.1 million followers. All the images are taken in the same style: from Murad's perspective showing just his extended arm and Natalia's back against beautiful backdrops. The project started accidentally in 2011 during a holiday in Barcelona when Natalia got frustrated with snap-happy Murad, who was pre-occupied taking pictures of the city. "This is just a hobby," says Natalia. "We're not thinking about being famous at all." Will Russia follow them? Now, the Hong Kong Tourism Board has commissioned the pair to lure more Russian tourists to the city. Out of the 54 million tourist arrivals in Hong Kong last year, 223,664 came from Russia. That's a 20% increase from 2012. Russians spend more than any other tourists (HK$9,258 ($1,190) per person, on average), including those from Mainland China (HK$8,937), according to the Hong Kong Tourism Board. The couple have taken their signature images at some of Hong Kong's top tourist spots -- such as the Choi Hung Estate -- as part of the Tourism Board's social media campaign. The first two images were revealed over the last week and the rest will be released one by one leading up to winter, a key travel season for Russians, explains a HK Tourism Board spokesperson. Both Zakharova and Osmann have day jobs back in Moscow -- she's a journalist and he's a film director -- that they try to juggle with this continuously expanding project. "It's really hard to balance our jobs and all the travel," says Murad. "We plan ahead -- we speak to the local photographers and communities for recommendations. Then we have to take weekends out. "We have to take up to 20 dresses with us [for Natalia] to see what looks best and all the equipment. It's not an easy project -- it's not a holiday." In future we can expect to see short travel video guides from the couple, comprising behind-the-scenes footage of the creation of each image as well as walking viewers through each destination's history and culture. "It's not a commercial project," says Natalia. "Each city, each country has its own unique character. We love all of the places." Alisha Haridasani is a freelance journalist based in Hong Kong where she works for a variety of print and broadcast institutions.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/politics/north-carolina-voting-fraud/index.html	politics	Vigilante or vindicator? One man's bid to root out voter fraud - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 12:00:53 EDT 2014	Washington (CNN) -- To Jay DeLancy, North Carolina is fraught with voter fraud and the state is doing nothing about it. So the former Air Force veteran has taken matters into his own hands and vows, as he sees it, to save the system from eroding honest elections. DeLancy launched the Voter Integrity Project more than three years ago, leading a band of volunteers in scouring public records and knocking on doors to root out irregularities in voter rolls. It's tedious work, and DeLancy has has generated mixed results as well as a measure of controversy. Some call his efforts "sloppy" and question whether he's addressing a serious shortcoming or whether he's become -- intended or not -- illustrative of the tough Republican-driven voter identification law that critics contend intimidates and disenfranchises minority voters. Moreover, this is all playing out amid hardening partisan divisions nationwide and legal and legislative battles as the nation hurtles toward a midterm vote with the Senate at stake and a presidential ballot in 2016. A man with a mission At the baron VIP headquarters in a commercial office park in Raleigh that resembled many low-budget start-ups, complete with a dry-ink erase board, folding tables with chairs and a big wood, scuffed desk, DeLancy proudly walked through the inter workings of his organization that includes a few dozen volunteers spread around the state. Bald and 56, he seems at least a decade younger than his age. His enthusiasm screams through his rabidly opinionated professions about how voting should work. He thinks the mentally ill should be barred from voting, felons should be restored their voting right after they serve their sentence and probation, homeless people should be allowed to vote but only if they remain at the address they put on their voter registration form, and those who don't know the issues should stay home. DeLancy co-opted his tactics from True the Vote, a well-funded yet controversial conservative group in Texas that prioritizes citizen enforcement of the voter laws. Framed by a 12-foot long map of North Carolina divided into counties and congressional districts on loan from a Republican member of the state legislature, DeLancy also talks about the need for a strict photo ID law and that fraudulent voting is rampant in elections. And he's doing everything he can to ensure that his vision of the election system is carried out. To address their concerns, DeLancy and his volunteers plow through public data -- tax records, voting records, jury records, census data and death records - scouring for suspicion and inconsistencies. He compares tax data with DMV records, voting records in North Carolina with voting records in Florida, jury data with voter rolls. He calls it data mining. All this information is then inserted into an algorithm, creating spreadsheets upon spreadsheets for volunteers to investigate. When red flags are raised, they might turn it over to the Board of Elections or they might check it out themselves. Looking in a liberal bastion In Buncombe County, which includes the western city of Asheville, a liberal bastion in a relatively conservative state, DeLancy's forces teamed with a local tea party group to analyze data. When five or more registered voters are listed at one address, a red flag goes up. Then they put on their shoes and pound the pavement. "We would actually knock on the door at that address," DeLancy said. His volunteers would check to see who lived there and if it matched the records. The response? "Some would slam the door in our face," DeLancy said, but added that others would answer their questions. If doubts persisted after confronting residences, they'd move to Stage Two. VIP would address a letter to the person in question. If the letter came back with "return to sender," that letter became evidence to submit to the Board of Elections. DeLancy said a worst-case scenario would involve someone voting fraudulently or, at the very least, they need to be removed from the voter rolls for not living at the address listed. DeLancy took 180 cases to the Buncombe County elections board and a little more than half the names were stricken from the voter rolls. Jane Bilello, a volunteer with the Voter Integrity Project and head of the Asheville Tea Party who participated in the door-to-door checks, said the reason they are checking the voter rolls name by name is simple: "We're doing it because the (political) parties aren't." Tea party group in North Carolina might give up on national races Vigilante or vindicator? DeLancy and his group are an aggravating nuisance whose tactics do more damage than good, according to fellow good governance groups with opposing ideological views. Sarah Zambon, president of Asheville League of Women Voters, said VIP targets minority and Democratic leaning districts, leading to voter disenfranchisement and voter intimidation. She said that of the 80 precincts in Buncombe County, all of VIP's challenges came from 11 precincts, most of them low income or minority -- communities that are more likely to have more people living under one roof. "It has an intimidation effect," Zambon said, detailing the story of one African American woman who said she didn't feel comfortable when people showed up at her door and wanted to know where her sons lived. 2014 midterms: What's at stake Zambon also said he has effectively removed homeless people from the voter rolls for not being at a fixed address. DeLancy shot back, saying Zambon needs to "cut the emotion and deal with the facts." "Our laws are so lenient in favor of the voter that any person can claim they're homeless and vote from anywhere," DeLancy said. North Carolina's tamp down North Carolina's election record is good. The Pew Charitable Trusts' election initiative named it one of the top-performing states in 2012. The organization cited increased voter registration, few problems with provisional ballots and minimal wait times at polls. Of the 88% of eligible voters are registered to vote, more than 65% voted in 2012, according to Pew Research's Election Performance Index and confirmed by the state. That turnout is similar to 2008 and both elections saw African Americans vote at a higher rate than whites, according to Democracy North Carolina, an election watchdog group. In addition, cases of fraud are negligible. The state's Board of Elections says fraud is possible but the state doesn't keep track. Elections board spokesman Josh Lawson said in the most recent statewide elections on May 6, one case of fraud was referred to the the local district attorney's office and he anticipates "at least three other" cases will be investigated by the board of elections. But still, the state enacted one of the most stringent voter ID laws in the country, requiring one of a limited number of forms of identification at the poll starting in 2016. The law also gives voter vigilantes more power, enabling citizens to challenge another person's vote anywhere in the state. Like laws of its kind that have been passed and challenged elsewhere, including in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin where the courts struck down the laws, North Carolina's law is being challenged for disenfranchising voters. Michael Cobb, political science professor at North Carolina State University, said the law discourages people to vote, adding that the state that voted for Democrat Barack Obama in 2008 and Republican Mitt Romney in 2012 has taken a step backward. 5 takeaways from North Carolina's primary election "They've gone the wrong direction in the importance of protecting the vote," Cobb said. "They've erred on the side of making sure no ineligible person would vote." While DeLancy aggressively advocated for the law, he pushed for a version that went even further. And thinks the state isn't doing enough to enforce the laws and that high voter participation is an indicator that fraud is rampant. Mixed results After three years of work and countless volunteer hours, DeLancy has no cases of fraud to show. He cites, however, that the board of elections has made five "referrals" of prosecution to local district attorneys. He blames the Republican-led board of elections and the inherent difficulty in the system to confirm fraud in the election system. "We thought with two Republicans in charge they would work with us," DeLancy said. "Even when we do the right thing, the authorities don't really care." His group also challenged 130 people who are on the voter rolls who got out of jury duty for saying they weren't a citizen. But the board of elections rejected their challenge. Despite falling short on the fraud front, the group has had some impact, including pushing the state to conduct more thorough list maintenance. He has played a role in removing about 30,000 people from the voter rolls, most of whom had died, which was confirmed by a state-led audit. That's in addition to another 155,000 the state removed from the rolls after conducting a cross-state comparison of public data. Lawson said another 60,000 voters are undergoing review. And to the chagrin of some and the delight of others, they've helped to raise the issue to a whole new level in the state. "They've caused bureaucratic wheels to turn," Cobb said. Lawson said they welcome the work DeLancy - and all good governance groups - are doing. The state is looking into some of VIP's findings, including 149 instances of people with the same name and birthday who voted in North Carolina and in Florida. But Bob Hall, executive director of Democracy North Carolina, a voter protection organization, said DeLancy's group does "sloppy" research and submits piles of claims to the board of elections to sift through with no substantial outcome. "They have the appearance of being a research group but they operate like a witch hunt group," Hall said. "That's not useful." DeLancy dismisses his critics and states the overall goal. "We want to figure out how people are voting multiple times. That's the whole ball game," he said. Complete coverage: 2014 midterms  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/europe/eastern-ukraine-battle/index.html	world	'It's hell down there:' Inside the battle for eastern Ukraine - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 11:45:13 EDT 2014	Slovyansk, Ukraine (CNN) -- In a forest of pines to the east of Slovyansk, Prapor and his seventy men were digging in Thursday. A man in his late-fifties with a magnificent beard and four different weapons, Prapor freely admitted he was not a local. But he was here -- he said -- to resist the "Ukrainian fascists" in Krasny Liman, a nearby town just recaptured by government forces. He was dismissive of the group that had fled Krasny -- "Cossacks," he sneered. He had already lost seven men, but his fighters were the bravest. They would not run away. Meeting Prapor was revealing in several ways. Pro-Russian separatists working in eastern Ukraine are better organized, better armed (Prapor's group had a truck-mounted anti-aircraft gun that was clearly working), and more of them appear to come from beyond Ukraine. And they are building a maze of roadblocks and defensive positions across the region. But a few kilometers beyond, in rolling countryside under a hot sun, a very different group was setting up camp: a substantial force of Ukrainian paratroopers, with armored personnel carriers and artillery. Above, a reconnaissance plane drifted in loops. Both sides look -- at least militarily -- more competent than they did a few weeks ago. Checkpoints used to be few and far between. Now there is a maze of them -- more separatist than Ukrainian -- dotted across both the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. The insignia of the "Vostok Battalion" -- a group that includes both Russian and local fighters -- is common at the roadblocks that have sprung up on the main roads leading into Donetsk. A few weeks ago, we watched the bedraggled remnants of the Ukrainian army's 25th Division surrounded and harangued by locals near Kramatorsk. Now there is a sense of purpose among the units newly deployed, and a greater readiness to use heavy armor. Throughout an extensive tour of the Slovyansk area, the crump of artillery and boom of tankfire sounded periodically. But the targeting is sometimes puzzling. Krasny Liman is a town of some 20,000 people and a major railway junction. But one of its two hospitals is in ruins, struck repeatedly by what appeared to have been mortars or shells. There was also evidence of strafing from the air. A tearful nurse approached us, saying that whoever had done this was not human. She -- and others -- thought Ukrainian forces were responsible, but they could not be sure. Patients had been evacuated, but one middle-aged man sat listlessly on a bench outside. He had nowhere to go, he told us; a doctor came past once a day to give him an injection. The new mayor, installed Thursday as Kiev's local appointee, said he would investigate the bombing of the hospital. But for the government, recovering Krasny Liman is a rare victory -- and judging by the number of troops installed around the town, one it intends to protect. Now Ukrainian armor seems intent on squeezing separatist positions closer to Slovyansk. It seems like eastern Ukraine is half-way through a game of chess, pieces scattered across the board in threatening positions, with neither black nor white close to checkmate. Civilians, whatever their allegiance, are suffering the consequences. The main highway that links Slovyansk and the Russian border, a route crowded with trucks just a few weeks ago, is deserted. In places the tarmac is chewed up by the impact of mortar fire. But once in a while an ancient, battered car lurches onto the road from a farm-track. A family has escaped from Slovyansk, where water and electricity supplies are faltering and fresh food is getting more difficult to find. The intentions of either side in this scattered war of attrition are hard to work out. Some Ukrainian analysts say that Russian President Vladimir Putin has what he wants already, a simmering insurgency that can be stoked any time Ukraine's new leader, Petro Poroshenko, looks to deepen his country's relationship with Europe and NATO. There seems to be no attempt from the Russian side to stem the growing flow of fighters crossing into Ukraine, and border clashes have intensified. As for Kiev's strategy, it's unclear as of now whether it feel its "Anti-Terrorist Operation" can overcome the separatists or at least redress the military balance as a precursor to negotiations. What seems unlikely is that Poroshenko will accede to the demand of the Prime Minister of the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic, Alexander Borodai, who told CNN there would be no talks until Ukrainian forces left the Donetsk and neighboring Luhansk regions. Poroshenko's message to the east in his inauguration speech Saturday will be closely scrutinized, but even ordinary people in Donetsk are suspicious of him, noting his support as a candidate for a hard line against the separatists and his threat to send the army into the city. The new President's message to the outside world will be equally critical, as he walks the tightrope between making Ukraine part of Europe -- the dream, still unrealized, that brought thousands onto the streets of Kiev in February -- and reassuring Russia that its interests in the neighborhood will be acknowledged. It is a reality he recognized when he told the Washington Post in April: "Without a direct dialogue with Russia, it will be impossible to create security." Creating security seems a long way off. On Thursday, a car raced out of Slovyansk and emptied a mother and her three young children on the main highway to be ferried somewhere safer. Drawing on a cigarette, the 30-something driver called Vladimir said they were not his relatives. He was just helping them escape. "It's hell down there," he said, before jumping into his car to return. READ: Obama warns Russia of further costs if it continues meddling in Ukraine READ: Opinion: Will Ukraine's 'Candy Man' deliver the goods?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/opinion/urry-big-bang/index.html	opinion	Opinion: What's behind the Big Bang controversy? - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 12:35:23 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Meg Urry is the Israel Munson professor of physics and astronomy at Yale University and director of the Yale Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Everyone wants to be right. Most of us sure hate being wrong. But scientists know that new discoveries often change or even invalidate earlier ideas. Being wrong can mean we have learned something new. This week, a controversy about the Big Bang and the origin of the universe came to light at the American Astronomical Society conference in Boston. In an invited lecture sponsored by the Kavli Foundation, Princeton astrophysicist David Spergel offered a different idea about a discovery made last March, where the BICEP2 Antarctic cosmology experiment reported evidence of a period of rapid "inflation" in the very early universe. Specifically, researchers detected the special pattern of polarization that would be caused by gravitational waves stretching and squeezing space itself during inflation. Last week, three theorists -- Alan Guth, Andrei Linde and Alexei Starobinsky -- were awarded the prestigious Kavli Prize for astrophysics for their work developing the theory of cosmic inflation. (This prize and the AAS lecture were sponsored by the same foundation but were otherwise completely independent.) Their award may well have been prompted by the BICEP2 discovery, which generated a lot of excitement about early universe cosmology. But at the American Astronomical Society conference, Spergel argued that the BICEP2 results reported in March could instead be explained by a more pedestrian effect, namely, light scattering off dust between the stars in our Milky Way galaxy. If he is correct, the widely heralded BICEP2 announcement was premature at best and wrong at worst. This kind of controversy is completely normal in science. It's the way science progresses. You put an idea out there and your colleagues -- many of them good friends and scientific collaborators -- try to shoot it down. A scientist's first reaction to a new idea is often: "That's wrong because...." To which the proponent replies, "No, you are wrong because..." And so the debate begins. No matter how much a scientist might hope to be right, nature holds the answer. One theory may be more beautiful than another, or more complicated, or more elegant, but nature doesn't know or care. The job of a scientist is to find out what the real answer is, not to advocate for any one point of view. We do that by making careful measurements and assessing the accuracy of the result. BICEP2 detected certain polarization patterns in light from the cosmic microwave background, which they believe were created during inflation. David Spergel is instead suggesting the light was polarized by passing through galactic dust near the end of its journey to our telescopes -- indeed, he argued, this dust is expected to create the kind of polarization signal BICEP2 saw. To support his contention, Spergel cited data from a space experiment called Planck, which like BICEP2 measures polarized light from the cosmic microwave background. Planck's ability to measure light at more wavelengths than BICEP2 gives it an advantage in diagnosing the effects of dust. If the BICEP2 team is correct, they detected the first signs of gravitational wave distortions of space in the first one hundred millionth of a trillionth of a trillionth of a second of an early, extreme inflation of space -- an extremely important discovery. If Spergel is correct, a significant signal from primordial gravitational waves has not yet detected and we need to keep looking for this critical probe of our universe. New measurements from the Planck team are expected next fall. Maybe they will settle the controversy. Either way, an array of increasingly sensitive experiments will make still better measurements of the cosmic microwave background. This is an important goal. Since the early universe is far hotter than any laboratory on Earth -- or, for that matter, in the most energetic regions around black holes or in the most massive clusters of galaxies -- it offers a very important experimental laboratory for testing fundamental physics theories. That's one reason the debates will continue until one side convinces the other. But most scientists really don't care about the "win" -- we care about understanding nature. Even Spergel, at the beginning of his address to the American Astronomical Society audience, called the BICEP2 results "heroic science" -- a very difficult measurement that pushes the limits of current technology. Controversy and debate may be messy but that's how we make progress in science. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/08/29/health/lyme-disease-missed-symptoms/index.html	health	Lyme disease symptoms missed: 2 years of hell - CNN.com	2013/08/29	Thursday Aug 29 07:23:25 EDT 2013	Editor's note: This article was originally published on August 29, 2013. (HLNtv.com) -- For most people it starts with a telltale, bulls-eye rash and flu-like symptoms. It then develops into neurological problems, such as numbness in the limbs or facial paralysis, leaving the patient in excruciating pain. About 300,000 Americans each year are infected with Lyme disease, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That number, the CDC reported last week, is about 10 times higher than they had previously estimated. But what if you never get the rash? What if you blow off your symptoms as a bad case of the flu? I spent the first 30 years of my life in New England, where talk about Lyme disease was prevalent. When I was little my mother would have us slather on the DEET before we went outside made sure we had long pants and socks on, especially when we'd play in the woods. She'd check us for ticks and remove any she found with a match and tweezers. Problem solved -- no rash, good to go. Buzz off, bugs! How to stay safe during insect season Then in 2006 I moved to Atlanta, and Lyme disease faded from my mind. Common in the Northeast, Lyme disease is found less often in the South. The year I arrived, eight cases were reported in Georgia, compared to 1,788 in my home state of Connecticut. I am now one of the cases for 2013. At least once a week, my muscles start to twitch uncontrollably; they tighten so much my fingers turn into fists. I can feel my fingernails digging through my skin. My heart races out of control and my blood pressure skyrockets. My doctor holds me down, consoling me, telling me to breathe because he has no idea what's going on. My face is numb, and it feels like I have the flu. I have trouble breathing. The pain is so bad I start to cry. A few years ago I noticed a pain radiating down my leg, starting from the small of my back. I had had artificial disc surgery in my spine a couple years prior and thought this new pain was due to scar tissue from the surgery. Then I went to work one day and lost all feeling in my legs. My arms were tingling and it felt like I had pins and needles everywhere in my body. I went to the ER, and that night, I became a medical mystery. I had a full body MRI (the first of many) and by the end of the night I had seen at least five neurologists. They chalked it up to my previously damaged spine, gave me some painkillers and sent me on my way. This sequence of events would continue for another two years. Each time the diagnosis would change, but the end result would stay the same. I saw a neurologist, a neurosurgeon, an orthopedic surgeon, a urologist, a neuro-urologist, a kidney specialist, three different pain doctors and a pain psychologist. My diagnoses varied from heart disease to polycystic kidney disease to Lupus. I had many different neurologic disorders -- fibromyalgia, psychosomatic disorder and my personal favorite, neurosyphilis -- according to these doctors. I had multiple brain MRIs that revealed lesions in my brain; these were due to my high blood pressure, the doctors told me. I continued to get little headaches that would come, last for a minute and disappear. My legs would lose feeling and everyday it seemed like I was getting weaker. I would get Bell's palsy -- a syndrome where part of my face would be paralyzed and slump to one side. My body would twitch uncontrollably, and then tighten up to the point where I thought my bones would break. I was told my pain was all in my head, that it wasn't real. Why you should be afraid of Lyme disease I should have been thinking about Lyme disease. I know several friends and family members who have contracted the disease. But I had moved to South. I didn't think I had been bitten by a tick. I had no rash. Still, research about my symptoms online showed late stage Lyme disease made sense. During an appointment with my neurologist last month, after another trip to the emergency room, I asked: What about Lyme disease? They tested my blood, and three days later the results came back positive. I was devastated. Had I only thought of it earlier, or had my doctors only thought of it earlier, the bacteria that manifests itself as the disease could have been eradicated. In the medical community, chronic Lyme disease is a controversial diagnosis. Lyme disease is usually treated with medication for no longer than 28 days. But for some, even when the bacteria that causes the disease is gone, the symptoms still remain. The CDC calls it post-treatment Lyme disease syndrome. "Approximately 10 to 20% of patients treated for Lyme disease with a recommended 2-4 week course of antibiotics will have lingering symptoms of fatigue, pain, or joint and muscle aches," its website states. "Most medical experts believe that the lingering symptoms are the result of residual damage to tissues and the immune system that occurred during the infection." The CDC goes on to say that no studies have proven antibiotic treatment past three to four weeks leads to any improvement in the patient. Some doctors disagree. Since there is still so much we don't know about the disease, the controversy ensues. In the next few months, I will see what relief my treatment will bring. My only hope is that by sharing my story, others won't suffer the same fate as me.  
http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/07/living/best-young-adult-books/index.html	living	Young adult books that changed our lives - CNN.com	2013/10/07	Monday Oct 7 08:23:20 EDT 2013	(CNN) -- What makes a book memorable? Its ability to shock, sadden or awaken some sort of emotion? Or, is it the extent to which you see yourself in the characters or the worlds they inhabit? All these characteristics and then some, judging from the responses we got to the question, "Which young adult books changed your life?" We posed the question to members of the CNN Digital newsroom to find out which books have stuck with them since adolescence. Is it definitive? No. But what library is? To even things out, we sought input from the millennials in the newsroom, too. Share your favorites in the comments or on Facebook to contribute to a reader-sourced list to publish later in the month. "Little Women" by Louisa May Alcott, 1868 It's a classic young adult book from before the young adult section existed in the bookstore (or, before there were even bookstores as we know them?). And it has withstood the test of time. Don't believe us? Consider: The tale of the March sisters' journey from childhood into adulthood was made into a Hollywood movie in 1994, more than 100 years after it was first published. "Growing up with a single mom and two sisters in a family struggling to make ends meet, 'Little Women' spoke to me in countless ways and remains one of my favorite books to this day," CNN Digital Correspondent Kelly Wallace said. "Sure, the unmistakable power of women and girls was part of it, but so were the characters, namely Jo March and her relentless and opinionated spirit, her desire to chart a unique path and her sense that she could do something really great when she grew up. I saw a lot of myself in Jo -- or wanted to see a lot of myself in her character. I, too, had big dreams and a sense of doing something really important when I got older. Reading 'Little Women' on my couch in my Brooklyn home during my tween years confirmed it was possible." "Chronicles of Narnia" C.S. Lewis, 1950 to 1956 Who didn't have a Narnia moment at some point growing up in the latter half of the 20th century? Through seven novels, C.S. Lewis staged battles between good and evil in a magical kingdom of talking animals and nobility, bewitching children of all ages. "'The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe' opened my eyes to the idea that a complex alternate world could be imagined in such a detailed way," CNN iReport's Henry Hanks said. "It opened up my imagination and inspired me to seek out other stories of science fiction and fantasy." The rest of the books in the series proved equally gripping, both within the pages and the images. "As wonderful and influential as Lewis' first story in the series is, I have always thought 'The Magician's Nephew' was a more exciting story," said CNN Living's Ann Hoevel. "The White Witch -- as flawed and evil as she was -- was one of the most powerful women characters I'd ever read about. Jadis intimidated all the men with her physical strength and beauty and made her desires a reality by sheer force of will. To this day, I'm a sucker for antique rings and origin stories, and it is all this book's fault." "Harriet the Spy" by Louise Fitzhugh, 1964 "Harriet Welsch's life looked nothing like mine; I remember looking up 'dumbwaiter' and 'egg cream' in the dictionary, and having a long think about why an 11-year-old might need a nanny," CNN Living's Jamie Gumbrecht said. "But when I read 'Harriet the Spy' in fifth grade, I was taken by Harriet's habit of wandering, observing and writing. The book inspired a temporary fixation with tomato sandwiches, a still-strong tendency to wear jeans and sweatshirts no matter the weather and maybe a journalism career. It was then, after all, that I first stopped caring what people thought, and just started writing everything down. I've still got my copy of 'Harriet,' and all those ridiculous notebooks." "A Wrinkle in Time," by Madeleine L'Engle, 1968, and other books in the Time Quintet series The heroines of Madeleine L'Engle novels taught a generation of girls that being smart could come in handy and that they could be attractive for being smart. Meg Murry O'Keefe, Vicky Austin, Camilla Dickinson and Katherine Forrester love science, poetry and music -- pursuits that sometimes set them at arm's length from their peers, but eventually lead them to fulfilling careers and adventurous, loving lives. "The heroines are never the pretty, popular girls (though they, too, are drawn in a nuanced way). They're the smart, awkward, introspective and unexpectedly brave young misfits who succeed later in life," Eatocracy's Kat Kinsman said. "While they might suffer some social and emotional punishment for their dedication to their craft, it's trusting in themselves intellectually and artistically that gives them the capacity to love and be loved later in life." "My notion of a desirable woman, up until that time, consisted of Charlie's Angels and Solid Gold dancers, who all had impossibly long hair and meticulously painted faces. And those ladies had nothing to do with the sorts of stories I found interesting," Ann Hoevel said. "Fantasy adventures set in exotic lands that relied on a battle of wills or the power of intellectually dependent magic were -- and still are! -- my jam. And usually, it's the men who figure everything out in those kinds of stories, even if a heroine is central to the plot. Meg Murry (and her scientist mom, who was certainly no slouch) changed that. Thank goodness!" "The Outsiders," by S.E. Hinton, 1967 S.E. Hinton was 15 when she started writing "The Outsiders," about an Oklahoma band of roughneck kids called the Greasers and their battle with the outwardly refined but no less violent Socs from the other side of the tracks. It was the perennial in-group, out-group tale that teens live for, made all the more poignant because Hinton lived it as she wrote it. "The reason the book works so well is because the story is told through the eyes and heart of Ponyboy Curtis, a sensitive kid on the edge of deciding who he wants to be, who's being swallowed up by a world that threatens to make the choice for him," CNN Living's Melonyce McAfee said. "I gobbled the book up in a marathon reading after checking it out of the school library in what must have been fifth grade. I identified with the kindhearted and book smart protagonist and his desire to be accepted by the well-healed in-group but still be true to his dirt-poor roots. In Sodapop, Ponyboy, and Darry I saw my own family, and in reading their story I realized that I better start making choices of my own before my origins sealed my destiny." "Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret" by Judy Blume, 1970 If you were born before 1990, this book probably needs no introduction. For everyone else, it's the novel that launched author Judy Blume's career and introduced a generation to real talk about periods and sex. "Thank you, Judy Blume, because without you and your book, 'Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret,' I am pretty sure I would have remained clueless about periods and puberty during my tween and early teen years," CNN Digital Correspondent Kelly Wallace said. "We never had the 'period' talk in my household, and I can't really remember any deep discussions about how my body might change, either. I loved Margaret, and reading about her first period and buying her first bra opened my eyes to what would happen to me one day. ... It was one of the most popular books among my friends, and is a book I look forward to giving to my daughters when the time is right." "This book taught me how Spin the Bottle is played, and made me daydream about that game going the way I wanted (alas, I never played)," said CNN Health's Elizabeth Landau. "More seriously, it brought up issues of multiple identities that have stayed with me for many years. Margaret is the daughter of a Jewish father and a Christian mother, so she has numerous conflicts about who she is and what she believes and where she fits in. Both of my parents are Jewish, so I don't have this precise struggle. But I am sharply cognizant of all kinds of divisions of myself: Being a Jew and an American, being a journalist and an American, being a Northerner living in the South, etc., etc. And what do any of these specific identities really mean, and how do we weigh the values and ideas and beliefs of one against another? I think that this book introduced me to the idea that we all juggle multiple aspects of ourselves, and there are no clear cut answers as to who we really are. " "Then Again, Maybe I Won't" and "Forever" by Judy Blume, 1971 and 1975 The two closest runners-up behind "Are You There God" got a few votes for their frank depictions of sex -- another prominent theme in young adult books. "The former taught me what a 'wet dream' was and helped me to realize that boys were just as confused about their bodies and emotions as I was. The latter was about the sexual awakening of a teen couple -- and let's just say I could relate to the swirling emotions and hormones!" CNN Entertainment producer Lisa France said. "The Face in the Frost," "The House With a Clock in Its Walls" and "The Chessmen of Doom" by John Bellairs, 1969, 1973 and 1989 Young adult books aren't all about girls and periods. Fantasy and science-fiction novels offer young readers a glimpse of alternate worlds before they become jaded adults. "Like many children, I was a tasty gazelle in the wild savannah of grade school. Sometimes things could be scary, but as I got older, the works of John Bellairs were of some comfort: At least my concerns didn't foretell the end of the world. Johnny, Lewis and Anthony had far bigger problems to solve and I ate up their stories," CNN's Nicole Saidi said. "Now that I am a writer, and an adult, I can feel the influences of the freaky, fantastic setting details from 'The Face in the Frost' when I think about how to describe a place in a compelling way." "The Chocolate War," by Robert Cormier, 1974 In the face of overwhelming pressure to bend to the status quo and join his classmates in Trinity High's annual chocolate sale, freshman Jerry Renault just quietly said no. His adversaries weren't just garden variety high school lunks, but rather a decades-old secret, sadistic cabal of students operating with the full cooperation of the faculty. Having recently lost his mother -- and the attention of his father, still mourning her loss -- Jerry wasn't about to give up the one thing he had left: his free will. "A quote from 'The Love Song of J Alfred Prufrock' stuck up in Jerry's locker acts as his emotional compass, asking 'Do I dare disturb the universe?' He does, merely by refusing to play along and facing the physical and emotional punishment he knows he'll incur as a result. It's a powerful lesson about standing by what you believe in, even if you must do so alone," Kat Kinsman said. "Morning Is a Long Time Coming," by Bette Greene, 1978 "Summer of My German Soldier" is a frequent inclusion in high school English curriculums, but far fewer people followed along to find out what happened to the teenage protagonist, Patty Bergen, after the German soldier she'd been harboring was caught and summarily executed. "Anton Riker had been one of the few people to ever treat Patty (the eldest daughter of the only Jewish family in town) as a creature of worth, so after reform school and graduation, she leaves Jenkinsville, Arkansas, behind and travels to Europe to find the family who made him into the kind, insightful person he was," Kat Kinsman said. "Little does she know that freed from the stigma, shame and abuse she weathered back home, she'll finally be able to see and accept herself as a person who's always been worth loving -- and that the people around her were just too limited to see it. Home and family, she finds, are where you make them." "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy," by Douglas Adams 1979 "I read a Scotch tape-reinforced copy of the 'Hitchhiker's Guide' snagged from an English teacher's classroom sometime in the mid-1990s. I laughed and laughed and laughed, but had no idea there were more books, that it had started as a radio show or that it was a mortifyingly awful-amazing TV show," Jamie Gumbrecht said. "One morning, I happened to catch a radio interview about it, and was stunned to realize that there was more Douglas Adams out there to read and apparently, I wasn't the only one doing so. (Oh, high school.) Shortly thereafter, I fell in with a grand group of friends, the kind of kids who made high school memorable and giggled when you answered "42" on a tough Quiz Bowl question. (Oh, high school.) And you know what? I read it now, and I still laugh and laugh and laugh." "Anastasia Krupnik," by Lois Lowry, 1979 "I grew up idolizing Anastasia Krupnik, the star of a series by Lois Lowry, my favorite young adult author," said CNNI's Jill Martin Wrenn. "Anastasia is sarcastic, precocious, and a little bit goofy (but in Middle School, aren't we all?). And, she dotes on her younger brother. She navigates a first crush, a move to the suburbs and a disastrous effort to make a gourmet meal with humor and resilience. Because she cares about her grades in school, and gets along with her parents, she's not a bad role model for a tween. I look forward to introducing her to my daughter." "Both Sides of Time," by Caroline B. Cooney, 1995 "This is the first time I remember feeling like I belonged when I picked up a book," CNN's Ashley Strickland said. "Like 15-year-old Annie Lockwood, I, too, felt like a hopeless romantic living in the wrong century. It's an overwhelming age, trying to figure out who you are and where you'll end up. Cooney captured that sentiment perfectly and placed it at the heart of her writing. I was a literature and history nerd fascinated by the past, eager to explore it, and here was a character with the chance to do so over a quartet of wonderfully written books. It seemed like Cooney was able to reach into my soul and write the exact story I wanted. So naturally, I read them over and over." "Sirena," by Donna Jo Napoli , 1998 "As a precocious reader without many young adult choices, I was always turning to mythology. And then Napoli wove together this lyrical retelling of the Philoctetes story from Greek mythology," Ashley Strickland said. "Rather than pandering to younger readers, she poured out a poignant tale of relatable longing with the most beautiful language. The lesson was also unforgettable: Don't change yourself for anyone." "Shadowland" by Meg Cabot (under pseudonym Jenny Carroll), 2000 "Stumbling upon Cabot was probably one of the best discoveries I made as a young reader," Ashley Strickland said. "She got it, where other authors were making the effort but falling flat. Reading her effortless writing style was like catching up with your best friend in the hallway after a long weekend. She knew the stories that teens wanted to read, where we could find ourselves on the page and be able to laugh at the awkwardness we so well recognized. Although this series is about a girl who mediates between the living and the dead, it remains incredibly relatable. Any situation feels overwhelming when you're the new girl just trying to survive high school. Through her books and heroines, Cabot offered escapism and empowerment right when I needed it most."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/opinion/beale-destruction-porn/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Summer movies or 'destruction porn'? - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 01:49:14 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Lewis Beale writes about culture and film for the Los Angeles Times, Newsday and other publications. He has taught writing about film at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- In the latest "X-Men" film, Magneto levitates RFK stadium and drops it around the White House; the stadium is destroyed. In "Godzilla," the monster fights off what looks like the entire U.S. military while he flattens both Honolulu and San Francisco. And in the new Tom Cruise film, "Edge of Tomorrow," opening Friday, Paris is left underwater after an alien attack, and a futuristic D-Day-like invasion leaves a French beach strewn with dead bodies and smoldering war materiel. There's plenty more mayhem to come as this season's glut of blow-'em-up flicks rolls out: "Transformers: Age of Extinction" (aliens drop a cruise liner on a city), "Guardians of the Galaxy" (outer space vehicles liquefied by the dozens), "Hercules" (the title character fights off lions, sea monsters and a whole army of bad guys) and "The Expendables 3" (Sly Stallone and gang; train rams into prison). Entertainment Weekly recently referred to it as "the summer of destruction." But let's call it what it is: destruction porn. Like real porn, these movies play to our most atavistic instincts. They all include some sort of buildup, the titillation of expectation that really bad, but cool, things are about to happen. They generally climax -- pun intended -- with a massive set piece of CGI carnage. And like real porn, afterwards we're supposed to feel deliriously fulfilled and exhausted. Fact is, we should hate ourselves for feeling this way, as if we'd just had really bad sex. But that's not the reaction destruction porn elicits. Even worse, we're exporting this American blood-lust globally, giving outsiders the impression of a country that has totally gone over to the Dark Side. It's not as if there hasn't been massive carnage in the movies before this. Hollywood has produced plenty of war films, ecological disaster flicks and alien invasion epics in the past. But the sheer frequency of destruction porn these days -- at least 11 movies of this type in summer 2012 ("The Avengers," The Dark Knight Rises," etc.) and 12 during the same season last year ("White House Down," "World War Z," etc.) -- and our delight in seeing things blown up, should make us worry about the mental health of society. Movies have always reflected the anxieties of their age. In the 1950s, we had plenty of nuclear paranoia films,often featuring mutated life forms. (Can you say "Godzilla"?) The '60s and '70s brought us ecological and bio-terror themes in films such as "The Omega Man" and "Silent Running."And later films, like "The Road Warrior," reflect an apocalyptic mindset. But the recent spate of films seem to reflect a collective psychic collapse. Sure, there are reasons for this: fear of terrorism, the insecurity created by all those mass murders, like the recent episode in Santa Barbara. We feel that world has gotten even more chaotic. That there's too much of everything. That society has gotten way too complicated, with too many people, too much technology, too many opposing ideologies clashing against each other. It recalls the classic 1959 dystopian novel "A Canticle For Leibowitz," by Walter Miller Jr., in which the end of industrial civilization is referred to as "the Simplification." It's as if we're preparing for a global meltdown. And the summertime, when we're supposed to be mellowing out, is a perfect time for Hollywood to exploit our growing appetite for this kind of carnage. There are two specific reasons for this: Most filmgoers are in the under-40 demographic, looking for a night out away from the heat and to put their brains on pause -- and believe me, there's nothing more mindless than watching stuff blow up. If it's photographed lovingly, and with insanely good computer graphics, all the better. The second reason is the importance of the foreign market, which now accounts for nearly 70% of total box office gross. Our global neighbors tend to go for what we do best, which is make big budget films with state-of-the-art special effects, a minimum of dialogue (explosions speak a universal language) and lots of mayhem. Lots. Just to take two recent examples: the just-opened X-Men film has grossed $168 million in the U.S., and twice that much overseas. And the new "Captain America" flick -- "Captain America," no less! -- has grossed $255 million domestically and a whopping $454 million overseas. America: A country where scenes of mass destruction are the norm, and carnage is preferred over peace, love and understanding. Is this the kind of negative image of America we want to export? And sure, we all know that "It's only a movie," but don't kid yourself: When we get geeked at the leveling of entire cities, it says something about who we are, and where our society is going. And you'd think after 9/11 and the never-ending mass murders in this country we would be a bit more sensitive to scenes where cities are destroyed and thousands of lives lost, but the opposite seems to have taken place: We wallow in it. We cheer it. Like porn, we can't take our eyes off it. It's seductive and incredibly addictive. Wish fulfillment? Catharsis? Just good old entertainment? It really doesn't matter. While we're in the grips of whatever social psychosis is stoking this ravenous appetite for mayhem, Hollywood will be happy to oblige. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/americas/mexico-u-s-marine-detained/index.html	world	U.S. Marine says he'd walked into Mexico before arrest on gun charges - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 01:27:44 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A U.S. Marine sergeant who was jailed in Mexico in late March, after crossing the border from California with several guns in his car, said Friday that the day of his arrest, he had crossed the border by foot, stayed at a hotel and hung out in Tijuana. U.S. Marine Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi, who also said he attempted suicide while being abused by his Mexican jailers, has maintained that he took a wrong turn across the border with firearms he said he legally owns but are unlawful to bring into Mexico. "I stayed in a hotel earlier in the day," Tahmooressi said Friday in an interview with CNN's "New Day." "I parked my truck at a parking lot on the American side ... and I walk into Mexico with a backpack with extra clothes and hygiene supplies, passport, wallet. And I decide to go hang out in Mexico for some good Mexican food, inexpensive place to stay and to hang out." Asked about Mexican media reports that he had crossed the border into Mexico several times before his March 31 arrest, Tahmooressi said he had previously traveled there four times "just to hang out." He denied crossing the border with the intent of trafficking arms. He had an AR-15 rifle, a .45-caliber pistol and a 12-gauge pump shotgun in his truck. "I know what they're going to say," he said of Mexican authorities. "They're going to say a whole bunch of lies. They're already saying a whole bunch of lies. I just know that the truth will set me free." Source: New hearing set for U.S. Marine held in Mexican prison An Afghanistan war veteran, Tahmooressi, 25, had recently moved to Southern California to get treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder, according to his family. Tahmooressi described a suicide attempt with a shattered light bulb after being punched, slapped, cursed at, deprived of water and food, and shackled to a bed with a four-point restraint in a Mexican prison. "I had one hand above my head, not both, just one," he told CNN. "I was laying on a bed. ... When I got the opportunity, I decided to stab myself in the neck with a light bulb ... I was paranoid. I had been abused. I was thinking they were going to come and abuse me more and torture me and get information about my family from me. So I said, 'I'm not going to allow them to do that.' " U.S. Marine tells of abuse in Mexican prison, but says he's still hopeful Tahmooressi said conditions improved after media coverage of his plight. Mexican prison authorities have denied the abuse allegations. "I would like everyone to know that I'm an innocent man and that it was just a big mistake and that I had no intention of bringing weapons into Mexico or committing any crime at all," he said. "Unfortunately, I wasn't treated right at the border and my rights were violated." His mother, Jill Tahmooressi, has said her son immediately disclosed to the border guards that he had weapons and requested that he be allowed to turn around. A 911 tape released by U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-California, appears to support the Marine's version of events. In it, the Marine is heard saying, "I crossed the border by accident, and I have three guns in my truck, and they're trying to take my guns from me." After learning he was in Mexico, the 911 dispatcher responded: "There's nothing I can help you with then, sir. I do apologize. You're not on American soil anymore." Tahmooressi asked whether authorities have a right to take his guns. The dispatcher said he should have seen large warning signs on the freeway saying it's illegal to enter Mexico with guns. "There are warning signs that do say that as you're driving down the freeway, before you enter Mexico," she said. "Yeah, I was hoping there would be a turnaround point," he responded, "but there never was." His mother has said Tahmooressi was searching for permanent housing and often stayed in San Diego hotels. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told CNN last month that he had spoken with Mexican authorities about the veteran's case. Tahmooressi's family and friends also pressed their case in a White House petition that had more than 122,000 signatures -- above the mark needed to garner an official government response. "I don't know what they're going to do to help me," he said. "If they do help me, it's probably just going to be behind the scenes and the public isn't going to know about it." Cevallos: Should Marine be in Mexican prison? CNN's Nick Valencia, Jason Morris and Holly Yan contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/europe/belgium-jewish-museum-victim/index.html	world	4th victim of Belgium museum shooting dies - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 12:59:52 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A fourth person died in connection with the May 24 shooting at the Jewish Museum in Brussels, the Belgian interior ministry said Friday. Images from the museum showed the gunman behind last week's deadly attack approaching the building, opening fire, and walking away. A suspect, Mehdi Nemmouche, was arrested in France this week. Nemmouche recently spent a year in Syria and is a radicalized Islamist, French officials said. Jewish Museum shooting suspect carried weapons, gas mask Belgium Jewish Museum shooter carried camera to record the attack Video shows Jewish Museum killer  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/tech/gaming-gadgets/e3-2014/index.html	tech	At E3 2014, the games are the thing - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 01:04:21 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A year ago, Sony and Microsoft were kicking off their new next-generation video game consoles at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles, California. This year, the event will be all about the games, as developers show what they can do with that new technology. Some game companies have already shown glimpses of the power of the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 with recent releases like "InFamous: Second Son," "Titanfall," and "Watch_Dogs." E3 2014 promises to showcase even more creativity, flair, and dynamic gameplay with a look at upcoming titles arriving in the next year and beyond. Even Nintendo will be making a splash with its eye toward boosting sales of its own "next-gen" console, the Wii U. The company chose not to hold a traditional press conference in 2013, and has opted again for a digital event and smaller, more intimate meetings. But the real question for the expo is, how many of these games will people actually get to play? Sony With Sony leading the sales pack with the introduction of its PlayStation 4 console, they will be looking to hold their lead and offer more titles to keep fans interested. They also will be showing off more about their latest hardware project, Morpheus -- a virtual reality headset that undoubtedly will be integrated into some of their own titles. Expect to see more about popular titles like "The Order: 1886" or "Uncharted 4," two games that have been teased quite a bit over the months. It is also likely that fans will get glimpses of games like "Driveclub" and a possible new title for the "God of War" franchise. While Sony hasn't pushed as much on the music and movie front as their competition, it would be a surprise if PlayStation Now, their new streaming service, didn't get prominently mentioned. With a new PS4 console/PS Vita handheld console bundle recently announced, cross-play and Vita titles will likely be part of every demonstration. Microsoft The Redmond, Washington, company has to feel like it has been playing catch-up for the past year. Fan reaction to some of its Xbox One policies and hardware forced Microsoft into backtracking on many of its E3 statements from last year. Unbundling the Kinect hands-free controller from the console, along with a price cut, garnered mixed reaction from the public, so expect Microsoft to explain why it was a good idea and how it will influence the user experience. A "Halo 5: Guardians" presentation will surely get everyone's blood pumping and a new title, "Sunset Overdrive," should excite fans with its colorful and quirky gameplay. Will there be more exclusive title announcements? Likely, but how many will move consoles is the real question. Microsoft has been aggressive in pushing the Xbox One as an all-in-one entertainment center, so don't be surprised by more content partnerships to be showcased. Nintendo Nintendo's struggles with the Wii U have been well documented. The company just can't seem to explain to customers why the 2012 console offers a different entertainment experience and is feeling financial pressure to do something big. The company is banking on new games to help get more Wii U's into homes. "Mario Kart 8" and a new "Super Smash Bros." game will help. There are also rumors of a new "Zelda" game for the Wii U and a major new title for the handheld 3DS console. Hopefully, they will also give more details about a series of figurine-based games, similar to "Disney Infinity" or "Skylanders." Called the Nintendo Figurine Platform, a demonstration in May showed a Mario figurine being used with different games on the same platform. Can you imagine the demand for Mario-based figurines? PCs Nearly every new game that comes out for the consoles also comes out for the home computer (well, except for Nintendo). The popularity of "World of Warcraft," "Neverwinter," and other massive multiplayer online games has opened up the field for new MMOs to try their hand. With the new games, companies are going to be showing off new bells and whistles for computer gamers -- specialized keyboards and mice, chat headsets, and high-powered gaming laptops and towers. It's a good bet a few booths on the show floor will be packed with the latest and greatest hardware for people who game on PCs. More games Third-party game developers will also be showcasing their talent with promises for this year and next. Warner Bros. Entertainment just announced a new "Mortal Kombat X" title, which should get some play at E3, as well as more about "Batman: Arkham Knight." Both of those games are likely to be available in 2015. Electronic Arts plans on a mix of updates to classic franchises, like "Madden," "FIFA," and "The Sims," while planting the early seeds for new, original projects set to blossom over the next few years. They will also announce a game from Criterion Games that is NOT another "Need For Speed" game, but something brand new. Ubisoft will be showing off a new "Assassin's Creed Unity" game they said was built specifically for the next-gen consoles. They also announced "The Division," an open-world, role-playing game set in the heart of New York City, and "Far Cry 4," taking the action to the Himalayas. "Civilization: Beyond Earth" from 2KGames, "The Evil Within" and "Battlecry" from Bethesda Softworks, and "Destiny," a Bungie-produced title from Activision are all expected to be shown with more video, more explosions, and more excitement for the fans. Plenty of other third-party developers will be announcing titles throughout the three-day event. What else? Virtual reality gaming is likely to be on the rise with the strides Oculus Rift has made toward a home headset in the past two years. Some companies are looking to be the first to produce a blockbuster hit for the VR headset. Mobile gaming, both on its own and as a companion to console gaming, will get more attention this year as many games produce one-off titles for smartphones or incorporate gameplay into tablets. It will also be curious to see how much social-platform gaming is featured this year. Regardless of what is predicted, expected, or promised, E3 always manages to have a few surprises and twists just to keep everything interesting. What do you hope to see revealed at E3 this year?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/14/sport/football/fabio-cannavaro-world-cup-football/index.html	iSport	Fabio Cannavaro: The street urchin who became a World Cup 'legend' - CNN.com	2014/05/14	Wednesday May 14 08:46:50 EDT 2014	CNN's Human to Hero series celebrates inspiration and achievement in sport. Click here for videos and features (CNN) -- "When you win the World Cup, you start to become a legend -- for the people around the world, you are different." For Fabio Cannavaro, this legendary status was hard earned. At just 5 foot 9 inches tall, he wasn't built to be the world's greatest center back. And he certainly never expected to be named the world's best player. "I'm very proud because, all my life, I worked very hard to be a football player," Italy's 2006 World Cup-winning skipper tells CNN's Human to Hero series. "I was not like Cristiano Ronaldo, Messi -- with a lot of qualities, with a lot of skills." Taking over the national captaincy from Paolo Maldini in 2002, he was never supposed to outshine his illustrious predecessor, a man who had become the embodiment of defensive greatness. As a Neapolitan -- considered a southern outsider by many in the industrial and footballing heartlands to the north -- Cannavaro was an unlikely hero to unite the country. But the foundations had been laid in the streets of in Fuorigrotta, a working-class neighborhood on the western edge of Naples, where the young Cannavaro learned he'd need to play smart and hard -- developing his positioning, athleticism and an impressive leap -- to overcome bigger opponents. He was the quintessential Scugnizzo: a smiling, cunning street urchin, spending his days playing football in the road, "between cars, everywhere." "My parents every day said, 'Ah, it's better you go to school, it's very important for your future,' " the 40-year-old recalls. "But inside myself, I said: 'I think the good way is follow the football.' " Holding high the World Cup trophy at Berlin's Olympiastadion eight years ago, his conviction had paid off. The Azzurri defense, marshaled by Cannavaro, yielded only two goals throughout the tournament -- equaling the record set in 1998 by that night's final opponent France -- and fought doggedly through a scrappy match that was tied at 1-1 at the end of 90 minutes. His impregnable performances earned him the nickname "Muro di Berlino" -- the Berlin Wall. Sporting his then-trademark boyish buzz-cut and ear-to-ear smile, Cannavaro rarely looked like a man with the fate of an ever-expectant nation on his shoulders. His cool demeanor is typical Neapolitan (when reporters asked what the secret to his robust performances was, he replied: "Eating well, getting plenty of sleep and having sex") and set him apart from his volatile France counterpart Zinedine Zidane -- who would depart the field in extra time after lashing out with an infamous headbutt. And when captain Cannavaro was calm, his teammates were too: the job was "very easy," he says, because of the intelligence and professionalism of those around him. At times -- including the bulk of the final -- they didn't make it look easy, as they toiled through regular game time, but professionalism was the word in the tiebreaker. Italy had exited three of the previous four World Cups on lost penalty shootouts (losing to Brazil in 1994 in the tournament's only other final to be decided by penalties) but this time stepped up and slotted home all five chances from the spot. It took a four-hour coach journey back to Rome's Circus Maximus stadium -- "a place where the old gladiators celebrate" -- for the realization to sink in that everything would now change. The sight of over 150,000 ecstatic Italians in the arena -- and many more partying outside -- left no doubt. "For us it was something unbelievable -- more than 2 million people on the streets," recalls Cannavaro, who as a child had watched Italy's previous World Cup triumph on television in 1982. "We understood we did something -- 'Wow!' We understood we are world champs. "Now we are not just normal players." Trophies and tribulations  Five days after the celebrations, Juventus, Cannavaro's club at the time, was booted from the Italian top division for its role in Serie A's Calciopoli match fixing scandal, and he was soon on his way out. "My team was unbelievable. I remember I was with Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Alessandro del Piero, David Trezeguet, Lilian Thuram, Gianluigi Buffon -- nine players we had for this team (played in) the World Cup final." "But Calciopoli destroyed everything." "In the end... we decided to move. Some players decided to stay there but I went to Real Madrid with Fabio Capello, the coach." It would be the beginning of a turbulent period for him, culminating in another World Cup -- Cannavaro's fourth -- this one, not so pleasant. Aged 32, his record in club football to that point consisted of hailed performances but little to show for it. The two Scudetti he had won in the two previous seasons with Juventus had been stripped, and the only silverware that remained were UEFA Cup and Coppa Italia wins with Parma, coming between barren periods at Napoli and Inter Milan. With Real, he won back-to-back La Liga titles in his first two years, taking over the No. 5 shirt formerly worn by Zidane. Cannavaro started to pick up individual awards too. He became only the third defender to win the Ballon d'Or -- then Europe's top individual prize, usually taken by creative playmakers or lime-light stealing strikers -- by beating the likes of Zidane and Ronaldinho. He says the new recognition of his talents was overwhelming: "I remember every week, some guys called me and said: 'Ah you need to come to Paris, you need to come to Madrid, you need to receive the trophy...' " When, the same year, he took home the FIFA World Player of the Year title, an emphatic haul was complete. "When I won both, everybody was 'OK, he's the best!' so I was very happy for the second trophy," he laughs. But things would not stay so golden. An unhappy return to Juventus followed a third season at Real, where fans in Turin refused forgive the earlier exit of a player they had adopted as one of their own. A failed drug test in 2009 -- for which he was later cleared of any wrongdoing -- added to the tension and after two seasons with no titles, he was on his way out. Still national captain, he surpassed Maldini to become Italy's most capped player by August 2009, with 127 caps (a record since surpassed by his longtime friend and World Cup teammate Gianluigi Buffon). But -- aged 35 -- he was beginning to slow and knee injuries became common. Having sat on the sidelines with an ankle injury as Italy lost in the quarterfinals at Euro 2008, he reappeared for the a disastrous 2010 World Cup, where the defending champions took an early flight home, having failed to win a match, in a group that comprised minor footballing nations Paraguay, Slovakia and New Zealand. He retired from international football on his return. After one World Cup that made him a global star, the next marked the end of his career playing at the highest level. Dreams of Napoli and Dubai Sitting in the Al-Rashad Stadium among Dubai's glass skyscrapers and petro-dollar yachts, Cannavaro now boasts a jet of black hair which could render him unrecognizable from the skinhead defender lifting the trophy in 2006 -- if it weren't for the unmistakable wide smile. The lavish surroundings hadn't been his first choice. Before joining UAE Football League side Al-Ahli, where he is now assistant coach, he'd attempted to engineer a move back to Napoli, where he made his debut almost two decades earlier, and where he could be reunited with his younger brother Paolo, also a defender. It was where he'd been happiest -- graduating from a ball boy to first-team regular at his childhood club. "When I started to play in 1993 with my team, I was shocked because I was a Napoli supporter: I grew up all my life with a Napoli jersey like my second skin and, for me, to be near to these players was unbelievable. I was like, 'What am I doing here?' " A famous story recalls young Cannavaro training as a youngster opposite Napoli's greatest hero, Diego Maradona, and delivering a crunching tackle. The coaches were apparently less than impressed, but the Argentine legend urged him to keep the passion. Even above his home nation's defending luminaries -- Maldini, Franco Baresi and the rest -- Cannavaro ranks Maradona, who led Argentina to World Cup glory in 1986 before joining Napoli, as a career-long inspiration. "Maradona, I think, is not a football player but he's something different. He was unbelievable," Cannavaro says. When the homecoming wish fell flat, it was time to "try something different," moving to Al Ahli first as a player on a free transfer after the 2010 World Cup, then joining the coaching staff the following year after knee injuries forced his retirement. For a player whose career was defined by discipline, hard work and tactic nous, the move into coaching was unsurprisingly straightforward, and his appointment has coincided with an upturn in the Dubai outfit's fortunes. He has also learned to speak English. "When I came here, the team was very, very bad. Now after three years with my president, we changed the team," he says, reflecting on a 2014 season that has seen the club take UAE's Arabian Gulf League, Super Cup and League Cup honors. "We are very proud of the job we did." His contract with Al Ahli ends in June and the future is, as yet, undecided -- although he has recently stated his ambition to return to Italy once he has earned his UEFA coaching badges. "Now I'm a coach so I want to be head coach," he says. "I think I'm ready to be, to go around the world and share my experience with the players." As his national side prepare to head to World Cup in Brazil -- as outsiders, like in 2006 -- a few of the faces from Cannavaro's winning team remain, accompanied by younger players hungry to become "legends" in their own right. But Italy -- the nation with the second best haul of World Cup trophies -- can never be ignored as it seeks a fifth crown. "We have the good team, good coach and -- of course -- we are the Italian national team, we can try to win again the World Cup," Cannavaro warns. "It is not easy because never in the World Cup history has a European team won the World Cup in South America. And inshallah, like we say in Dubai, we can win." Read more in our Flipboard World Cup Glories magazine  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/sport/football/world-cup-franck-ribery-injured-france/index.html	iSport	World Cup: Franck Ribery ruled out in double blow for France - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 12:13:55 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Another day, another star player ruled out of the 2014 World Cup. France is the latest team to suffer a hammer blow after playmaker Franck Ribery failed to overcome a back injury. Ribery, who plays club football for German champions Bayern Munich, had been battling the problem ahead of France's opening Group E match against Honduras on June 15. The 31-year-old had been following an individual training regime, but was forced to pull out of his first full session back with the squad. It was a doubly bad day for France coach Didier Deschamps as Lyon midfielder Clement Grenier's World Cup was ended before it began due to a thigh injury. "(Ribery) stopped with a strong pain," Deschamps, who captained France to World Cup glory in 1998, told reporters. "He had tests early in the afternoon which unfortunately confirmed the severity of the situation, that he will be unavailable for several weeks." Ribery, who played for France in the 2006 World Cup final, and Grenier will be replaced in the squad by Montpellier's Remy Cabella and Morgan Schneiderlin of Southampton. "The two players were on the reserve list and they are similar to the two players who left us," added Deschamps. "You cannot copy them exactly but Morgan Schneiderlin is the player most in the profile of Clement Grenier, and Remy Cabella is the most in the profile of Franck Ribery." Ribery is the latest high-profile player to be ruled out of football's showpiece event. Colombia striker Radamel Falcao failed in his bid to recover from a knee injury, while reigning world champions Spain will be without the services of Ribery's Bayern teammate Thiago and Barcelona goalkeeper Victor Valdes. The Netherlands has lost two key players to injury. Roma midfielder Kevin Strootman is out with a long-term knee problem, joining Hamburg's Rafael van der Vaart on the sidelines. England is missing Arsenal's Theo Walcott for the tournament, while his Arsenal teammate Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain is also struggling to play a part in Brazil after injuring himself in Wednesday's friendly against Ecuador. Fitness doubts also hover over two of the world's finest players. Uruguay's Luis Suarez is in a race against time to recover from knee surgery, with FIFA Ballon d'Or winner Cristiano Ronaldo also managing a thigh injury and tendonitis in his knee, which has ruled the Real Madrid forward out of Portugal's warmup match against Mexico on Friday. Read: From bullet holes to Brazil Read: Sex and soccer -- should teams abstain?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/world/africa/sudan-apostasy-brother-claims/index.html	world	Exclusive: Sudan apostasy woman's 'brother' says she should repent or die - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 12:21:56 EDT 2014	Khartoum, Sudan (CNN) -- Two names and two families at the heart of a tragedy. Al-Samani al-Hadi is one of three brothers, and what he calls their "private family business" has captured the attention of the world. "Firstly I want to say, I am the brother of the convicted woman Abrar al-Hadi", he tells CNN in his first sit-down interview since the woman he claims is his sister -- known as Mariam Yahya Ibrahim in media reports -- was sentenced to death by a court in Sudan for abandoning the Muslim faith. The woman, 27, was raised as a Christian by her mother and is married to a Christian man. But because her father -- who deserted the family when the woman was a child -- was Muslim, the courts consider her to be the same and asked her to recant her faith. She refused, and is now languishing in Omdurman Women's Prison, just outside Khartoum. "Her name isn't Mariam, her name is Abrar al-Hadi. I am al-Samani al-Hadi Mohamed Abdullah, her full -- older -- brother," al-Hadi, speaking to CNN from an Islamic Center in Omdurman, tells us as he rattles off dates and details in an attempt to prove this is the sister he grew up with. He says she started primary school in 1992, and middle school eight years later. He even remembers the score she got on a critical exam -- "she got a 73.7 percent," according to al-Hadi. Al-Hadi says his mother and brothers attended their sister's university graduation ceremony in Khartoum. Nothing, he says, seemed amiss. Then, he says, she met her husband Daniel and his sister. He claims Daniel -- whom he called "the Priest" -- fed his sister "potions" to convert her to Christianity. Daniel Wani and his wife tell a very different story. They say they were introduced through his sister in 2009 and married in 2011. Mariam, as Wani calls his wife, was a committed Christian -- attending church with a frequency that far outstripped his own. Wani says he never saw the man claiming to be his brother-in-law until the trial began. When I put this to Al-Samani al-Hadi, he tells me: "Then she is lying to both the Christians and the Muslims." "She went missing in Ramadan [July] last year for 45 days. That's when we went to the police. When she was picked up we found her face was different, the way she looked at us was different. She was bewitched. "When she stood in front of the court she said her name was Mariam Yahya. We were shocked." The case dragged on for seven months, during which time they brought fingerprint and identity documentation, photocopies of which have since been disseminated to local reporters. The documents -- which the court ruled to be genuine -- purport to show that the fingerprints recorded for the national identity card issued in the name of "Abrar" at the Sudanese government registry offices were an exact match to those the court took from Mariam. Wani told CNN that even if his wife is released, he fears for his family's safety from al-Hadi and his brothers. Wani is a U.S. citizen and is attempting to secure asylum there for his wife, along with citizenship for his two children. That process, he says, is being delayed by U.S. demands for paternity testing of the children. When asked by reporters earlier in the week if this was true, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said, "Genetic testing is a useful tool for verifying a biological relationship." Mariam -- or Abrar -- is currently hoping her that the courts will believe the story of her life as she tells it, according to her husband. She insists that she was brought up by a Christian mother and has never practiced Islam. And in spite of visits by religious scholars and Sudanese government officials pressuring her to recant, it's a story she's sticking to. I found myself returning to the same question time and again in this interview -- is al-Hadi really prepared to see the woman he claims is his sister killed? "It's one of two; if she repents and returns to our Islamic faith and to the embrace of our family then we are her family and she is ours. We are prepared to hold her dearer than the apples of our eyes. But if she refuses she should be executed." Even as all eyes are on Sudan's Court of Appeal, for al-Hadi there is no turning back. "Why would I indulge my humanity, my emotions and incur the wrath of my Lord? That's not how it works for us." READ MORE: Husband of jailed woman fears for family's lives READ MORE: Sudan's Christians "scared to pray" after ruling  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/justice/florida-miami-university-intruder/index.html	crime	Police seek alleged armed intruder at University of Miami - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 02:26:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The University of Miami temporarily ordered people to shelter in place Friday after an armed intruder was reportedly seen on its medical campus, the university said on its website. Police didn't find anyone matching the suspect's description, and they have cleared the scene, Alvaro Zabalet, a spokesman for Miami-Dade police, said. Zabalet said someone called 911 to report a man with a gun in his waistband. Police responded but did not find anyone matching the man's description, he said. The alleged intruder reportedly was at the mental health center on the third floor of Miami's Jackson Memorial Hospital, the university said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/world/americas/canada-moncton-slain-officers-profile/index.html	world	Slain Moncton constable had 3 kids, another had baby on way - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 02:36:46 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- All Royal Canadian Mounted Police "understand the risks that come with the uniform," Canada's governor general said. Five Mounties surely had those risks on their minds this week when they responded to a call about a gunman in Moncton, New Brunswick. And it didn't stop them from defending the quiet, tight-knit community of 70,000, located about 250 miles northeast of Bangor, Maine, Wednesday, their supervisors say. The call said the man, now identified as Justin Bourque, 24, was on a Moncton road, wielding a firearm. Soon, shots rang out on the road, as Bourque fled into the woods, where more shots were fired. Over a "short period of time," Bourque allegedly shot five officers, killing three and wounding two others, said Codiac RCMP Superintendent Marlene Snowman said. The two injured officers required surgery on Thursday police said. One has been released, while the other remains hospitalized. Canada's National Post newspaper is calling it the nation's worst police tragedy in more than nine years, when four Mounties were ambushed and killed during a property seizure in Mayerthorpe, Alberta. Canadian media at the time touted that tragedy as the worst in a century. "I can't begin to explain the sadness we feel. ... My thoughts and prayers remain with the families and loved ones of these fallen officers who died in the line of duty and our recovering officers," RCMP Assistant Commissioner Roger Brown said in a statement on Friday. He identified the slain officers: -- Constable David Joseph Ross, 32, of Victoriaville, Quebec, joined the RCMP in Ottawa. After graduating from the training academy in July 2007, he began working in general duty policing in New Brunswick's Codiac Detachment. -- Constable Douglas James Larche, 40, of Saint John's, New Brunswick, joined the RCMP in Moncton. He finished training in February 2002 and served in two posts before joining the Codiac Detachment where he worked in highway patrol and general duty policing. -- Constable Fabrice Georges Gevaudan, 45, of Boulogne-Billancourt, France, joined the RCMP in Regina, Saskatchewan. He graduated from training in February 2008 and worked in general duty policing in the Codiac Detachment. The injured officers are Constables Eric Stephane J. Dubois and Marie Darlene Goguen, who are "recovering well and are to be commended," Brown said. The assistant commissioner said he would provide more details on the slain officers and their funeral arrangements in coming days. The only other information he provided about the constables was that one of them had three children and that Larche received a commander's commendation in 2008 for saving the life of an unconscious baby in Moncton. Ross was a police dog trainer and was married to Rachael Ross, who was pregnant with their second child, CNN affiliate CBC News reported. The couple already had a 19-month-old son. "This is the most horrifying, difficult experience," Rachael Ross' mother told CBC. The couple celebrated an anniversary last month, and several of Rachael's friends on Facebook posted birthday wishes on her wall in May. Rachael Ross' sister-in-law told the National Post that Rachael got home from work Wednesday, the garage door was open and the barbecue had been left on. Her husband had been called in to work and left hastily, she told the newspaper. "All these guys were family men, protectors of our society, great guys  and Dave was one of a kind," Raquel Vander Ploeg further said. "Dave loved his job. He was good at his job. He was a police dog handler, and it was what he had striven to be for years, and he got it, and now this happens." CNN's Stephanie Gallman and Justin Lear contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/07/opinion/sutter-pangolin-song/index.html	opinion	Opinion: 'Please don't eat my pangolin friend' - CNN.com	2014/06/07	Saturday Jun 7 04:46:07 EDT 2014	Editor's note: John D. Sutter is a columnist for CNN Opinion and creator of CNN's Change the List project. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook or Google+. E-mail him at ctl@cnn.com. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- It's a love song to a creepy, scale-covered mammal that kind of looks like the cross between a dinosaur and a pine cone. And I kinda-sorta love it. It's "My pangolin friend [official music video]," uploaded to YouTube by New York songwriter and actor Max Demers. Demers, a 30-year-old waiter and self-described "starving artist," made the video in response to my Change the List story on pangolin trafficking in Southeast Asia. The pangolin is thought to be the most trafficked mammal, by numbers, in the world. This unknown underdog is sold illegally and by the ton for its scales, which are used in bogus medicine, and for its meat, which is a super-high-end delicacy in Vietnam and China. Demers read the story and, he told me in an e-mail, decided to write a semi-vulgar love song to this strange animal, which he'd never heard of before. "There are a ton of animals out there in dire need of help" he told me, "but a lot of them have entire armies of activists fighting on their behalf. I loved the idea that I could have a small part (in) drawing some more attention to an animal that hasn't gotten enough of it." Digital doc: Inside the pangolin trade The result is charming and weird and offensive and awesome. The chorus -- which croons, "please don't eat myyyyy ... pang-o-lin friend" -- is seriously catchy. Then Demers writes about how the pangolin secretes gross-smelling stuff out of its anal glands -- which is true, sometimes -- and also about how people eat its fetuses to supposedly boost sex drive. So, yeah. It gets a little weird, but it's for a good cause. In Vietnam and Indonesia, where I went to report the story that inspired this song, the pangolin is both mysterious and valuable. Its scales, which are made of fingernail-type material, are supposed to help women lactate. A group meal of pangolin at a restaurant in Hanoi could run $2,000 -- partly because the meat is a status symbol. Related: 7 ways to save the pangolin So I applaud this effort to catch peoples' attention about a strange and shy little animal that desperately needs all of our help. I also am still just thrilled that so many of you donated a total of $17,000 to Education for Nature Vietnam, which is going to make a pangolin-focused PSA to air in that country because of your generosity. Take a look at Demers' video (as well as this one from that "honey badger" guy), and read this lightly edited version of our e-mail convo below. Oh -- and please please don't eat his pangolin friend. Me: What do you like most about the pangolin? Guy who makes pangolin music videos in his spare time: I am amazed by so many things about this animal, such as their gentle, almost friendly demeanor (like an ugly-cute version of my cat Sasha), their crazy long tongues that wreak terror on unsuspecting ant colonies, and their unbelievably versatile tails, used for things like hanging from tree branches and even walking on their hind legs. I'd have to say my favorite characteristic, though, is its defense mechanism of rolling into a tight ball to ward off predators. While researching, I found this amazing video online of a pangolin that withstood an attack by eight lions by rolling itself up into this tight little ball. After something like three hours, the lions finally gave up and the pangolin just sauntered off into the woods again. Unreal! Me: How did you get interested in pangolins? Pangolin guy: I've always been a lover of all things nature. I grew up spending summers at camp in New England, camping and hiking throughout the White Mountains; and in 2008 I thru-hiked the Appalachian Trail. I'm an avid animal lover (presently going strong on my third attempt at vegetarianism!); but I am also an actor in New York City, and escaping the urban lifestyle can sometimes feel impossible. Every once in a while, however, an opportunity comes along that allows me to combine the two lifestyles. A few months ago, that was the case when I was hired by maxanimal.com to write a humorous song about an animal to be featured on their website. I had no idea what to write about, so I started reading, a LOT. My friend Blaire Carson, who is featured in the video with me, and a regular host on maxanimal.com, sent me an email with loads of links to articles about animals, including one about a woman who keeps 200 sloths at her house, and another about giant rats. But I was instantly drawn to your article on CNN.com, "The Most Trafficked Animal You've Never Heard Of." It felt important, and the pangolin's struggle felt desperate. The deciding factor for me was the that I had never heard of the pangolin before. There are a ton of animals out there in dire need of help, but a lot of them have entire armies of activists fighting on their behalf. I loved the idea that I could have a small part (in) drawing some more attention to an animal that hasn't gotten enough of it. Me: Tell about how you wrote the song? Dude who sings about anal glands: This song came surprisingly easy. As per my assignment, the song had to be humorous, which was a little intimidating at first, for two reasons: 1. Being told to be funny SUCKS, and 2. The survival of a species is a serious subject, and I didn't want the real issue to be overshadowed by male anatomy references and poop jokes. The turning point was when I thought to write the song as a love letter to the pangolin. Once I embraced that idea, I was able to balance the the dirty jokes with genuine love and concern for this animal, and the punch lines felt somehow more poignant and less offensive. Me: What's up with the format for the video -- where did you get the idea? Our resident pangolin enthusiast: The video was shot at a studio in Brooklyn. I went in with the song, and the amazing team at maxanimal.com shot the video. Over the next couple of weeks, their editor, Grannell Knox, edited and sent out rough cuts, and we all weighed in on the best ways to visually entertain people while also preserving the integrity and message of the song. One challenging aspect was that it was nearly impossible to find high definition footage of pangolins that we could use on such a limited budget. Me: Who's that in the video with you? Guy from the video: My dear friend Blaire. She is a frequent host on the website, and recommended me to the team when they mentioned adding a musical aspect to the site. Me: What's your favorite line for the song? Indecisive songwriter: I feel like I HAVE to give two answers to this question: 1. "This little girl's got a heart of gold, and she'll love you just as long as she's alive." This line is the song. And 2. "Please don't eat my pangolin friend, it's cheaper to sit hookers on your face." I love this joke because it's true! The amount of money people pay to kill and eat this harmless and beautiful animal is absurd! And for what? False promises. You stand as much of a chance of getting an erection by chewing on your fingernails (as getting one from eating a pangolin, which is seen by relatively few people as an aphrodisiac.) Me: What do you do when you're not making semi-vulgar videos about scale-covered mammals? Possibly offended artiste: I am an actor and a musician. Trained in musical theatre (sic) at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy and The New School in New York, I live the typical starving artist's life. I wait tables at Ellen's Stardust Diner to pay the bills; and when I'm not serving burgers and fries, I write music, audition and hit the stage any chance I get. Me: Do you write other music? Marketing-savvy musician: YES! Please check out my band, Astoria Boulevard, and our album This is Astoria Boulevard, available on iTunes, Spotify, CDBaby, and all that good stuff. I also have more tunes coming soon to YouTube and maxanimal.com.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/melanie-griffith-celebrities-shocking-splits/index.html	entertainment	Melanie Griffith, Antonio Banderas end marriage - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 06:06:15 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Melanie Griffith and Antonio Banderas are ushering in a new phrase for divorce: the "thoughtful and consensual" breakup. After 18 years of marriage, Griffith and Banderas have announced that they're going their separate ways. "We have thoughtfully and consensually decided to finalize our almost 20-year marriage in a loving and friendly manner honoring and respecting each other, our family and friends and the beautiful time we have spent together," the couple said in a joint statement on Friday. Their announcement comes after reports that Griffith, 56, has filed for divorce from her 53-year-old husband. The couple have one child together, 17-year-old Stella. According to People magazine, Griffith is seeking spousal support from Banderas and physical custody of Stella with visitation rights for Banderas. The date of the separation is unknown, and a source tells TMZ the split is amicable. This marriage was the second for Banderas and the fourth for Griffith. She was previously wed once to Steven Bauer and twice to Don Johnson, with whom she had daughter Dakota Johnson, the actress starring in the upcoming "Fifty Shades of Grey." CNN's Joan Yeam contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/showbiz/tracy-morgan-crash/index.html	entertainment	Driver in wreck that critically injured Tracy Morgan pays bail - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 06:17:18 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A truck driver charged in a crash that critically injured actor Tracy Morgan turned himself in, police said Sunday. Kevin Roper, 35, posted a $50,000 bail, Sgt. Gregory Williams of New Jersey State Police told CNN. The chain-reaction wreck early Saturday killed James McNair, 63, who was riding in a limo bus with Morgan. McNair was a comedian who performed under the name Jimmy Mack, said his sister, Valerie Daniel. Comedians Ardie Fuqua and Harris Stanton also were injured, as was Jeffrey Millea, Williams said. One person was released Saturday, but Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Jersey wouldn't disclose that person's name. Morgan and two others remained in critical condition Sunday, hospital spokeswoman Zenaida Mendez said. CNN reached Fuqua's agent on Sunday, but he had no comment. Walmart employee charged  Roper is charged with one count of death by auto and four counts of assault by auto after the tractor-trailer he was driving crashed into the limo bus, a statement from Middlesex County Prosecutor's Office said. Walmart spokeswoman Brooke Buchanan said Roper is an employee. "This is a tragedy, and we are profoundly sorry that one of our trucks was involved," Bill Simon, president and CEO of Walmart U.S., said in a statement. "The facts are continuing to unfold. If it's determined that our truck caused the accident, Walmart will take full responsibility." Chain-reaction crash  The wreck occurred about 1 a.m. ET Saturday on the turnpike in Mercer County, Williams said. "The driver of the tractor-trailer failed to observe slow-moving traffic ahead," Williams said. "At the last minute, he swerved to try and avoid the Mercedes limo bus but struck it from behind, forcing the limo to rotate and overturn." Four other vehicles were involved in the crash, the prosecutor's office said, but no one in those vehicles was injured. Williams said he does not believe alcohol played a role in the crash, but that is under investigation. The National Transportation Safety Board will investigate "safety issues related to commercial trucking and limousine safety," said agency spokesman Keith Holloway. From SNL to "30 Rock"  Morgan, 45, was a regular on "Saturday Night Live" for seven years. He later received an Emmy nomination for his role in "30 Rock," in which he played Tracy Jordan, an exaggerated version of himself. The New York City native made his reputation with over-the-top characters and impressions of celebrities such as Mike Tyson and Oprah Winfrey. Morgan performed a comedy tour act Friday night at the Dover Downs Hotel & Casino in Dover, Delaware, the venue said. Christopher Thompson, spokesman for limo owner Atlantic Transportation Services, said he thought the limo bus was heading to drop Morgan off in New Jersey. The actor received messages of support and concern on Twitter. "Wishing a speedy recovery to our friend @RealTracyMorgan," tweeted SNL Weekend Update. "Shocked to wake up and read that @RealTracyMorgan is injured. Love to Tracy and wishing him strength," said former SNL cast member Rachel Dratch. "My thoughts are with Tracy Morgan and his family. I hope he pulls through this soon and gets back to making us laugh!" said Joan Rivers. "Saying a prayer for @RealTracyMorgan," said actor-director Jon Favreau. "Come on @RealTracyMorgan pull through this buddy," tweeted actor Ike Barinholtz of "The Mindy Project." Funny man Tracy Morgan has known fame and foibles CNN's Suzanne Presto, Chris Welch, Faith Karimi, Rachel Wells, Carma Hassan, Joe Sutton and Alexandra Field contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/showbiz/sandra-bullock-prowler/index.html	entertainment	'Prowler' suspect arrested at Sandra Bullock's home - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 02:36:13 EDT 2014	Los Angeles (CNN) -- A man was arrested outside of Sandra Bullock's Los Angeles home Sunday morning, police said. Los Angeles police were responding to a "hot prowler" call at the actress's west Los Angeles residence at 6:30 a.m. when they found the suspect, according to an LAPD spokeswoman. The suspect's identity will be made public after he is officially booked, LAPD Officer Nuria Vanegas said. Representatives for the "Gravity" actress did not immediately respond to CNN requests for comment.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/asia/pakistan-karachi-airport-attack/index.html	world	Militants attack Karachi airport; 5 dead - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 04:04:17 EDT 2014	Karachi, Pakistan (CNN) -- Militants attacked Karachi's international airport Sunday, killing four military personnel, a senior Pakistani official said. A militant was also killed in the clashes, the official said. The militants entered the airport through an old terminal building late Sunday, according to Sharjeel Memon, information minister for the Sindh Province. Jinnah International Airport in Karachi is Pakistan's largest and busiest airport. Pakistan Taliban 'master bomber' gunned down amid deadly infighting Parts of Karachi shut down following party leader's arrest in UK  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/europe/pope-abbas-peres/index.html	world	Abbas, Peres pray with Pope for Mideast peace - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 03:33:11 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli President Shimon Peres committed themselves to the quest for peace Sunday during a unique prayer meeting of key figures in the Middle East peace process at the Vatican. At the invitation of Pope Francis, Abbas and Peres came to the Vatican in what was seen as a break from political negotiations. After prayers read in Arabic, Hebrew and Italian by figures from different religions, each leader offered his own invocation. The remarks included some political subtext while calling for God's help in achieving a resolution to the turmoil and violence in the Mideast. "Without peace, we are not complete. We have yet to achieve this mission of humanity," Peres said. "Even when peace seems distant, we must pursue it to bring it closer." Abbas said people are inclined to peace. "We ask you, Lord, for peace in the Holy Land, Palestine and Jerusalem," he said, according to a CNN translator. "Together with its people, we call on you to make Palestine and Jerusalem, in particular, a secure land for all believers, a place of prayer and worship." The Pope said the meeting is the response to people who want to live as brothers and sisters and not as enemies. "I hope that this meeting will be a journey toward what joins us, to overcome what divides us," the Pope said. Both had a chance to meet together privately with the Pope after the prayer ceremony in the gardens of the Vatican. "The metric that Pope Francis would be using to measure the success of this event is much longer term. I don't think anyone is expecting an immediate result," said CNN senior Vatican analyst John L. Allen Jr. "Now that said, you could also argue that the success of tonight could be measured by the simple fact that it happened." Immediately after the remarks, the leaders exchanged kisses on the cheek and handshakes then grabbed shovels to help plant an olive tree. It was a first for the Vatican, which had never hosted a prayer gathering of two leaders engaged in conflict. CNN's Delia Gallagher and Ben Wedeman contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/us/bowe-bergdahl-release/index.html	us	Kerry defends Bergdahl-for-Taliban exchange - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 09:32:24 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The five Taliban figures who got out of Guantanamo in exchange for U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl's release would be taking an "enormous risk" if they return to the battlefield, Secretary of State John Kerry told CNN in an interview that aired Sunday. "I'm not telling you that they don't have some ability at some point to go back and get involved (in fighting). But they also have an ability to get killed doing that. " Kerry said in his first public comments on the controversial prisoner exchange. Kerry defended the swap and told CNN the former detainees will be monitored closely -- and not just by officials in Qatar, where they were flown after being released. He wouldn't say who else will be watching, but he said the United States is confident the conditions of their release will be honored. "And if they're violated, then we have the ability to be able to do things," he said, warning that the United States would do whatever is necessary to protect Americans "if these guys pick a fight with us in the future, or now, or at any time." Bergdahl was released May 31 near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border in an exchange for five Taliban detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Republican critics in Washington have complained that the exchange for Bergdahl gave up hardened terrorists capable of attacking U.S. troops and interests. In addition, legislators from both parties accuse the Obama administration of violating the National Defense Authorization Act by failing to provide 30 days' advance notice to Congress of a transfer of Guantanamo detainees. Administration officials have given several reasons for the lack of notification -- a need to move quickly due to Bergdahl's poor health and the overall threat to his safety, and the likelihood that even a small leak of the plan could have led to his death. New reports about Bergdahl's time in captivity Bergdahl is recovering at a U.S. military hospital in Germany as details slowly emerge about his condition after five years of captivity. Citing an American official, The New York Times reported Sunday that Bergdahl told medical staff that the box he was kept in for weeks at a time was pitch black and like a shark cage. CNN reported Friday that Bergdahl has said he was kept in a small box after trying to escape, according to a senior U.S. official, who spoke on the condition of not being identified. The official also told CNN that Bergdahl suffers from psychological trauma caused by physical abuse. A Taliban source with knowledge of Bergdahl's captivity told CNN's Nic Robertson Sunday that Bergdahl was kept in a house owned by an old man, then escaped and was on the run for three days. When he was recaptured after that escape attempt, according to the Taliban source, he was not punished with a cage or cell, but was taken to a more secure location where he had no chance to escape. A U.S. official told CNN last week that Bergdahl may have tried to escape his Taliban captors on at least two occasions. The Taliban source said Bergdahl was given books to read that included Islamic books, but he was not forced to convert and remained true to his Christian upbringing. He was allowed to celebrate Christmas and Easter, the source said. Bergdahl learned to speak the local language of Pashto, was able to exercise and sometimes played soccer with the Taliban, the source said. Hospital: Bergdahl is improving, but isn't ready to travel Doctors at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, where Bergdahl was taken after his handover, said Friday that he was in stable condition and continued to improve but wasn't ready to travel to the United States. "There is no predetermined timeline for Sgt. Bergdahl's recovery process," a hospital statement said. "The duration will continue to be based on the pace of his healing and reintegration process." The Times report added that Bergdahl has taken walks outside his hospital room while wearing his Army uniform, according to the American official. Bergdahl, who was promoted twice on schedule while in captivity, objects to being called sergeant, the Times reported. Bergdahl was a private first class when he went missing on June 30, 2009, in Afghanistan's Paktika province, where he was deployed with the 1st Battalion, 501st Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division. When he is ready, Bergdahl will be flown to the San Antonio Military Medical Center in Texas, where he may be able to reunite with his parents. Bergdahl has not spoken with them since his release. Taliban celebrates Nine songs celebrating the release of the five Taliban detainees were posted to a Taliban website Saturday. On one tune, a singer calls the men "grand champions" and praises their Islamic faith. According to a CNN translation, a man sings in Pashto: Welcome a hundred times, welcome grand champions  Congratulations your new life, O freed men  Welcome a hundred times, welcome grand champions  Congratulations your new life, O freed men  Threats against parents The FBI is investigating threats against Bergdahl's parents, who have not been seen publicly since sending their son messages of love through a news conference days after his release. "We are working jointly with our state and local partners and taking each threat seriously," FBI Special Agent William Facer told CNN in an e-mail Saturday. Facer declined to detail the nature and severity of the threats, and a military representative for the Bergdahls declined to comment. Bergdahl's father received threats in three messages via e-mail at his home, according to a law enforcement official familiar with the contents of the e-mail. The first threat came on Wednesday, the official said, adding that FBI investigators will be tracing the messages to pinpoint who sent them. Since Bergdahl's release, critics, including a former member of his unit, have contended that Bergdahl deserted. The Army concluded in a 2009 report that he left his post deliberately. But the Army has no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials can't learn without talking to the soldier, a U.S. military official told CNN. Susan Rice defends Bergdahl comments, calls his service 'honorable' CNN's Barbara Starr, Qadir Sediqi, Ed Lavandera, Devon Sayers and Shimon Prokupecz contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/sport/football/world-cup-qatar-sony-fifa/index.html	iSport	Pressure mounts on FIFA as key sponsor demands 2022 investigation - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 03:47:08 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- FIFA was under growing pressure Sunday after one of its key sponsors demanded an investigation into corruption allegations published in a British newspaper over the controversial award of the 2022 World Cup to Qatar.  In its second batch of reports, Britain's Sunday Times made a series of new revelations, centered on the role of Qatar's former top football official Mohammed bin Hammam, in the nation's bid to stage the global showpiece.  Electronics giant Sony, listed as one of FIFA's six key partners, wants the world governing body to act promptly.  "As a FIFA partner, we expect these allegations to be investigated appropriately," it said in a statement to the newspaper.  "We continue to expect FIFA to adhere to its principles of integrity, ethics and fair play across all aspects of its operations."  The reports come the day before FIFA officially concludes its own probe into the 2018 and 2022 bids, won by Russia and Qatar.  It is being led by its chief investigator Michael Garcia, the former U.S. attorney who is to make his findings public in mid-July through FIFA's new adjudicatory chamber.  Sportswear company Adidas, one of the other five partners, also voiced its concern Sunday over the issue.  "A report is due to be submitted to the adjudicatory chamber of the FIFA Ethics Committee, with findings then released publicly in due course. We are confident that the matter is being dealt with as a priority," Adidas said in a statement released to CNN.  "Adidas enjoys a long-term and successful partnership with FIFA that we are looking forward to continue. Having said that, the negative tenor of the public debate around FIFA at the moment is neither good for football nor for FIFA and its partners."  The six main FIFA sponsors are believed to have collectively paid around $180 million as part of their sponsorship agreements.  Sony's deal is due to expire this year having been in place for the 2010 and 2014 World Cups.  Among the latest Sunday Times allegations were claims that bin Hammam had acted as a broker between Qatari officials and governments to set up lucrative bilateral trade deals as an incentive to gather support for their bid.  The newspaper insists it has had access to millions of emails, documents and bank records to show bin Hamman used a $5 million slush fund to influence the bidding process, but CNN has not had access to this material to verify its accuracy. Bin Hammam refused to directly respond to the Sunday Times allegations, but told the newspaper he believed "that the truth will find its way to (the) public one way or another." The 63-year-old first came to prominence when he challenged Sepp Blatter for the FIFA presidency in 2011 but was forced to withdraw to fight bribery allegations. He was later cleared of the allegations, but in 2012 he was banned for life by FIFA's ethics committee for "conflicts of interest" while president of the Asian Football Confederation.  Qatar World Cup organizers have continually denied that bin Hammam had any official or unofficial role in the bidding process and remain confident that they will not lose the rights to stage the competition.  In response to the latest reports, the Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy released a new statement to CNN. "In regards to the most recent allegations by The Sunday Times, the Supreme Committee stands by its previous statement," it said.  "There is an ongoing investigation into the 2018 and 2022 World Cup bid process with which we have fully cooperated," it said.  "Qatar has won the bid on its merits and we are confident at the end of the appropriate process, the award of the 2022 World Cup to Qatar will stand."  From the moment the decision was made in late 2010 for Qatar to become the first Arab state to host a World Cup finals, there has been a series of controversies.  The extreme summer heat, with temperatures as high as 50 degrees C, has led to calls for the tournament to be switched to a date during the European winter -- coming into conflict with the major football leagues such as the EPL and La Liga  FIFA has also called for improvements in conditions for migrant workers amid damning reports from international labor organizations and Amnesty International.  With the 2014 World Cup in Brazil due to start Thursday, FIFA officials have been gathering in the South American country for their annual Congress in Sao Paulo between June 9 and 12.  FIFA president Sepp Blatter is expected to announce his candidacy for a fifth four-year term as head of the organization.  FIFA has made no official comment on the latest allegations but Blatter took to social media to defend FIFA's handling of the affair. "Never ignoring media reports on ethics allegations in football. But let the Ethics Committee work!" he tweeted.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/canada-helicopter-jailbreak/index.html	world	3 men escape from Canadian jail in helicopter - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 02:49:37 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In a daring operation worthy of a movie, three men escaped from a Canadian jail by helicopter, prompting a massive manhunt, authorities said. The men escaped from a detention center Saturday night in Quebec City. "A helicopter touched down briefly in the courtyard before taking off with the three prisoners," Ann Mathieu, a spokeswoman for Quebec Provincial Police, told CNN. "We are talking closely with the detention center to figure out exactly how the escape transpired," Mathieu told CNN partner CBC. "The priority ... is to find the helicopter." A manhunt is under way for Yves Denis Yvon Lamontagne, 35, Denis Lefebvre, 53, and Serge Pomerleau, 49. The first two men were arrested in a drug bust in 2010 and were awaiting trial. Police found weapons, dozens of cars and a plane during the bust, it said. There was no information provided on the third suspect. It marks the second brazen jail escape in Canada in a little more than a year. In March 2013, two men posing as tourists commandeered a helicopter from a Canadian tour company, ordered the pilot to fly over a detention center near Montreal, hoisted two inmates into the hovering aircraft using cables -- and zipped away. It was a real "James Bond moment," witness Francis Emond said about last year's escape from the facility in Saint-Jerome, northwest of Montreal. While spectacular, airborne escapes are not unprecedented. Albanian inmate Alket Rizaj broke out of a maximum security prison in Greece twice -- in 2006 and 2009. On both occasions, accomplices swooped in to the prison's courtyard on helicopters. Inmates then climbed aboard using rope ladders. Both times, Rizaj was recaptured. Last year, another prison escape in Greece tried to use the same tactic. But the plot was foiled when the prisoner was shot and the chopper was forced to land on the prison parking lot. In 1971, Joel David Kaplan escaped from a Mexican jail aboard a helicopter. The New Yorker's flight inspired the book "The 10-Second Jailbreak: The Helicopter Escape of Joel David Kaplan" and the 1975 movie "Breakout." And in France, Pascal Payet escaped not once, not twice, but three times from French prisons. Each time, he was recaptured. Oklahoma jail shower escapees captured Arizona jailbird escapes to meet his girlfriend for Valentine's Day CNN's Holly Yan contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/opinion/zelizer-bergdahl-democrats-midterms/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Will Democrats pay price in 2014 midterms for Bergdahl deal? - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:25:23 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Julian Zelizer is a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University. He is the author of "Jimmy Carter" and "Governing America." The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Critics of President Barack Obama's foreign policy are getting louder by the day, and that poses risks for Democrats this fall and even in 2016. According to previews of Hillary Clinton's memoirs, "Hard Choices," the former secretary of state distances herself from Obama on certain decisions, such as on the question of whether to arm Syrian rebels. She wanted to be more aggressive; he did not. Democrats have grown more nervous about foreign policy as Obama has been working hard to respond to critics who say hasn't taken a tough-enough line. The controversy over the deal to secure the release of Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl in exchange for five Taliban prisoners has flared into an extraordinarily heated debate. Obama has watched as his approval rating for handling international affairs has fallen to 41%. Last month, Obama had to stand by as Republicans launched another round of congressional investigations into the deaths of four Americans in Benghazi, Libya. Russia's aggressive moves into the Ukraine stirred talk of a new Cold War and concern that the President didn't really have a viable response to this kind of aggression. Opinion: Why we leave no man behind More recently, the controversies shifted to the President's broader vision or lack thereof. Republicans found a lot to dislike in his address at West Point, where Obama indicated that the nation should step back from using military power as freely as it has done in the past. Soon after came the news about the release of Bergdahl, in exchange for the release of five notorious Taliban prisoners. Republicans were quick to accuse the President of negotiating with terrorists. They have also accused him of violating the law by failing to inform Congress of the impending deal. Even though Democrats point to a number of huge accomplishments during the Obama presidency -- the killing of Osama bin Laden, the drawdown of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and diplomatic initiatives to bring nuclear disarmament in Iran without bloodshed -- the critics have upped their volume. All of the recent stories add up to the potential for foreign policy to emerge as a potent issue in the midterm campaigns this fall. Congressional Democrats could suffer as a result of the unhappiness with the administration's policies. Even though midterm elections generally focus on bread and butter questions about the health of the economy, as well as local concerns, there are times when foreign policy can hurt the party of the president. In 1966, for instance, Republicans campaigned against Lyndon Johnson's policies in Vietnam. GOP officials such as former Vice President Richard Nixon said that Johnson was not unleashing enough force against the North Vietnamese Communists and leaving U.S. troops in a quagmire. In 1978, Republicans railed against President Jimmy Carter for his alleged weakness in foreign policy, claiming that he gave away too much in the Panama Canal Treaties and that he was pursuing a dangerous policy of dtente with the Soviet Union. In 1982, Democrats, who were generally focused on the recession, also spoke in favor of a nuclear freeze and warned that President Ronald Reagan's embrace of the military was bringing the nation close to war. More recently, Republicans blasted Democrats in 2002 for being weak on defense after having not supported the administration's homeland security bill. And in 2006, Democratic candidates returned the favor by criticizing the president's war in Iraq as a reckless, unnecessary and extremely costly operation that had actually undermined the war on terrorism. Gingrich: Bergdahl, Boko Haram and Benghazi While foreign policy carried different levels of weight in these midterms, in some of these contests, such as 1966 and 2006, the administration's actions overseas dismayed voters. Will foreign policy play a factor in the 2014 midterms? It is unlikely that it will be a major issue but there are ways it could have an indirect effect on the ballot box and cause trouble for Democrats when Americans turn out to vote. At the most immediate level, the foreign policy controversy has already distracted the news media from other kinds of stories upon which congressional Democrats were hoping to focus. The foreign policy controversy intensified just as there was evidence that the economy was picking up steam and that the Obama's health care program was gaining strength. Both signs of accomplishment were put on the back burner, overshadowed by the Bergdahl debate. The stories also feed the perception of some voters who feel that Democrats have not done a good job managing government. This is a White House that once prided itself on competence. Obama, a well-educated politician who surrounded himself with bright staff, vowed to avoid the kind of mismanagement that had been on display with Hurricane Katrina during President George W. Bush's term. But that reputation has slowly been undercut, especially after the botched health care website rollout and the VA scandal. Opinion: Bergdahl deal was an ugly decision but right  Some of the coverage of the foreign policy, including recent reports on how the deal with the Taliban was handled, have played into these kinds of criticism. The New York Times published a lengthy piece about the diminishing returns that Obama was able to obtain over the past several years in exchange for the release of the Taliban 5 and evidence of how his team had mishandled the process. The Berghdal deal is also becoming a way to question the veracity of Democratic promises. Members of Congress, in both parties, have alleged that Obama violated the law by ignoring a federal statute that says the president must inform Congress one month before such a deal is completed. They have said he is acting exactly like Bush, whom he had accused of discounting legislative intent through sweeping notions of executive power. The foreign policy debate puts into focus the argument that Obama, as well as the party he leads, lacks a bold vision. This is something that has even frustrated many Democrats who feel that the President is too much of pragmatist and not enough of a visionary. The speech at West Point fell flat for some Americans because it almost seemed focus on excusing what he couldn't do rather outlining what he wants to do. During his visit to the Philippines, the President explained his outlook on foreign policy by saying, "You hit singles, you hit doubles; every once in a while you may be able to hit a home run." The debate over foreign policy helps Republicans by riling up the party's base at an opportune time, five months before the election, while at the same time dispiriting the Democrats. Yes, voters are thinking primarily about how they're faring in today's economy, but on the margins, their perception of their local candidate's views on foreign policy could be a factor in November. Opinion: How big a risk are former Gitmo prisoners?  Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/opinion/macintosh-piketty-wealth/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Piketty's right about how to become a 1%er - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:35:39 EDT 2014	Editor's note: John MacIntosh was a partner at a leading global private equity firm, where he worked from 1994 to 2006 in New York, Tokyo and London. He now runs a nonprofit in New York. He does not have a son. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.  (CNN) -- Staunton, Your mother and I are so proud that in less than a week you'll be graduating college, and from my alma mater, no less! So this seems an opportune moment to share some thoughts about what you might look for in a career. And as luck would have it, I've just finished a new book, "Capital in the 21st Century," which has helped crystallize in my mind some things you ought to consider. The book has caused a predictable stir among the pro-equality set because the author, Tom Piketty, is a French economist with the gall to propose a global tax on wealth. But putting aside this nave, socialist claptrap, the book is a veritable treasure trove of advice on getting into (or staying in) the top 1%. The book confirms what you already know firsthand: The rich are getting richer; the really rich are getting really richer; capital is hot; labor is not. The obvious implication is that you must find a job where the distinction between capital and labor is blurry. A job where you can take a slice off the top by getting paid as if you owned a piece of action even though you don't. Because without some capital working on your behalf, no amount of even the hardest and most skillful labor will get you anywhere near the top. (How many doctors or engineers join the country club these days? Virtually none.) The great news is that there is a record amount of capital out there to work on your behalf. Piketty estimates that total capital is up almost threefold since I graduated from college 30 years ago. And these days, the real owners of capital don't seem to notice if people take a little off the top or are largely powerless stop it when they do. This was not always the case. Indeed, Adam Smith -- the first economist -- felt that even a "principal clerk" (his word for CEO) would always be paid based on his "labour and skill" and never in "proportion to the capital of which he oversees the management." Fortunately, times have changed in part because economists -- Smith's intellectual heirs -- invented myriad ways like the "principal agent problem," or the "marginal product of labor" to justify otherwise outrageous levels of compensation, provided there is enough capital in the picture. Smith must be turning in his grave! Now you may be wondering: "How much capital will I need working on my behalf?" It's a tricky question, but Piketty provides the answer. Let's assume that you won't settle for mere membership in the top 1.0% but have your sights set on the top 0.1% with a corresponding annual income of roughly $4 million. Piketty's analysis of long-run returns (4% to 5%) suggests that this would require you to have roughly $100 million of capital working on your behalf. Although this seems daunting -- it's what the average American makes in 2,000 years -- fear not, for there are a few places where this type of money can be found: Listed stocks: The average Fortune 500 company has a market value of $28 billion (280 times more than you need) and its real owners -- the shareholders -- are virtually powerless to stop senior management from taking 3.0% or more off the top. So even if the company's performance is lackluster, and the pot is split between you and four or five other top guys, there's plenty to go around. So while the corporate ladder can be long and greasy, it's worth the climb. I'd suggest you steer clear of smaller companies as they're just as hard to run as the bigger ones but don't hold enough capital -- the average Russell 3000 company has a market value of only $1.4 billion -- to be worth your while. Venture-capital-backed start-ups are also a decent bet provided you get in early and abandon ship at the first sign that the organization is not steadily progressing toward an IPO, or a buyout from Facebook, Google and the like. You might try a few ventures in your 20s and then go back to business school if it hasn't worked out. Private Equity and Hedge Funds: This industry is a dream come true. The standard take is generous -- a 2.0% fee plus 20% profit share -- which should net out to at least 3.0% assuming average performance and even after deducting the operating expenses of the fund. At 3.0%, you'll need $130 million working for you, which is more than achievable when private equity and hedge fund assets are a record $4.5 trillion (35,000 times more than you need) despite lackluster aggregate performance. This mountain of capital attracts a lot of competition, so don't be discouraged if you fail to break into the industry the first few times. Just keep at it, but please don't be tempted to cheat, as the government appears to be getting tougher on the insider stuff these days. Asset Management: This is a decent fallback if the hedge fund thing hasn't worked out by age 35. The take is much lower -- probably 0.6% after costs -- so you may need $600 million or more working on your behalf but don't be daunted. Despite strong evidence that the industry destroys value compared with lower-cost index funds, it still manages trillions. And the lifestyle is decent as many people secretly accept that they can't beat the market so they don't work that hard trying. Personal Services: If you're satisfied with being toward the middle of the top 1% then consider offering personal services to those with capital or access to it. They tend to be very brand/quality conscious and willing to pay top dollar for services, particularly when spending the real owners' money. Most well-paid service positions are in investment banking, law, and management consulting though the occasional doctor, psychotherapist, real estate agent, or art adviser can make the cut. It goes without saying that you must steer clear of government and the nonprofit sector at all costs. Although the Citizens United decision suggests that the Supreme Court may one day allow it, explicit profit sharing by government officials remains strictly illegal at the moment. As a result, you should only consider public service as second career after you've made the money you need. The nonprofit sector is even worse because it holds little capital, has no profits, and generates nothing but a "social" return that would hardly pay the bills even if you got to keep it all. Finally, never fear that mooching off someone else's capital is somehow second-rate compared with earning income from your own. I've never felt that way, and nothing could be further from the truth. You'll seldom be exposed to meaningful losses (even the London Whale gave back only two years of compensation), and your slice is often in addition to, not in lieu of, a decent salary. Furthermore, if you mooch long enough, you can build your own capital provided you avoid profligate spending, multiple divorces and the like. I'm not denying that there is a certain nostalgic appeal to building your own capital the old-fashioned way by starting a business, or by saving gradually over a lifetime of work. But these are risky and time-consuming strategies in the low-growth, high-capital environment you'll likely be living in. Son, the time for internships is over, and now your real quest begins. In the 21st century, a man without capital runs a grave risk of finding himself squeezed towards the bottom of the top 10% and possibly even lower. This is not a place you want to be. Somewhere out there is a $100 million slice of capital with your name on it just waiting to be found. Your mother and I have given you everything money can buy, and your children deserve no less. I know that you won't disappoint us. Dad Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/justice/las-vegas-shooting/index.html	crime	Source: Couple who killed 2 Vegas officers, 1 civilian were extremists - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 03:13:18 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A married couple yelling "revolution" gunned down two Las Vegas police officers at a pizza restaurant, then ran across the parking lot to a Walmart, where they killed a shopper at the store's entrance. The duo's Sunday morning shooting rampage ended when the wife fatally shot the husband and then herself as police closed in. Investigators found what appears to be a "manifesto" or some sort of writings at one of the scenes, a law enforcement official told CNN Monday. The official did not describe what the writings said, and police have yet to publicly disclose a motive for the shootings. A law enforcement source told CNN the couple held extremist views toward law enforcement. In addition to the writings, investigators also found flags or insignias with markings on them and two backpacks at the scene. It's not known what, if anything, was found in the them, the source said. Investigators also are going through the couple's social media postings, the official said. Witnesses told police the shooters said "This is a revolution" during their attack. Late Sunday night, police -- black bands around their badges in mourning -- cordoned off the area outside an apartment in downtown Las Vegas. Neighbors say the couple lived there and that police had deployed a flash grenade at the home. Authorities, however, deferred all questions to a news conference they have scheduled for 10 a.m. (1 p.m. ET). "This was a senseless and cruel act killing three innocent people," said Las Vegas Mayor Carolyn Goodman. "Two who dedicated their lives to protecting all of us in our community and one who was innocently going about her daily life." 'Simply having lunch' The pair began their attack about 11:20 a.m. when they opened fire inside a CiCi's Pizza where the officers were eating lunch. "I just sat down to have lunch. The officers were sitting in front of me, at the table right next to me -- and this man came in out of nowhere," a dazed Sheree Burns told CNN affiliate KTNV. "I thought he was going to get a drink, the way he walked up and walked past them. And then he turned around, pulled a gun on his right and shot the bald officer in front of me." The slain officers are Alyn Beck, 41, and Igor Soldo, 31. Both were married with children: Beck left behind a wife and three children; Soldo, a wife and a baby. Sheriff Doug Gillespie said one officer was able to return fire. "What precipitated this event, we do not know," he said. "My officers were simply having lunch." The suspects took the officers' guns and ammunition, Assistant Sheriff Kevin MacMahill told reporters. They "made a statement -- something to the effect of, 'This is a revolution.'" 'That man was crazy' As they walked out, they passed Alvaro Lopez. "They had a backpack and I saw a gun in their hand," Lopez told CNN affiliate KLAS. "He just told me to tell the cops that it was a revolution and that he'd just killed two cops inside CiCis." The pair ran over to a Walmart across the parking lot. At the store's entrance, they killed a woman. Her name has not yet been released. Shoppers rushed toward the exit. Pauline Pacheco saw the armed man and grabbed her father. "We saw when the man was walking," she told KLAS. "He was shouting, yelling bad words, and suddenly he had a gun. "It was terrible, it was terrible. That man was crazy." Officers converged and exchanged fire. The pair retreated to the back of the store and took their own lives. MacMahill, the assistant sheriff, called it a "suicide pact." 'Emptiness in our heart' Las Vegas law enforcement aren't immune to officers falling in the line of duty. But to have two die in a single incident has left the department shocked and shaken more than usual. Both Walmart and CiCi's issued statements of condolences, as did lawmakers. Patrol officers in the city usually work alone. But, at least for the next few days, they will be riding in pairs, Gillespie said. "We still have a community to police and we still have a community to protect," he said Sunday night. "We will be out there doing it with our heads held high but with an emptiness in our heart." CNN's Jack Hannah reported from Las Vegas; CNN's Shimon Prokupecz; Matthew Stucker and Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/sport/california-chrome-injury/index.html	iSport	California Chrome's injury 'superficial'; owner stands by criticism - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 12:52:22 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It's going to take two to three weeks for thoroughbred California Chrome to heal from a nasty injury to his hoof, his trainer Art Sherman said Sunday. "He's got a lot of talent," Sherman said of the colt that was the favorite for the Belmont Stakes but was denied his shot at becoming the first Triple Crown in 36 years. Tonalist was victorious Saturday at the storied race in Elmont, New York. California Chrome finished in a dead heat for fourth with Wicked Strong. Sherman said the colt's injury occurred during "the first jump." "He just needs a little time off," Sherman said, explaining that the injury is "superficial" and not "deep." Sherman assured that California Chrome will not be in any pain as his injury is treated in part with a special bandage, and his recuperation will involve some "pasture time." As to what went wrong for a horse who many thought would win Saturday, Sherman alluded to the amount of racing California Chrome did leading up to the Belmont Stakes. The colt, which brought in $3.5 million this year, ran his third Triple Crown race in five weeks. Eleven horses competed in the Belmont Stakes. Sherman suggested Sunday that, as with any athlete, rest is just as pivotal as racing and training. "I think you need a little more time between races," he said. Jockey Victor Espinoza seemed optimistic that Chrome would recover. "Thank you to everyone for your support on this journey, you are awesome! I hope California Chrome gets better soon," he tweeted Saturday evening. California Chrome's owner Steve Coburn was incensed Saturday that none of the top three finishers had raced in both the Derby and Preakness, the two prerequisites to the Triple Crown. Those horse owners took "the coward's way out," Coburn blasted. Coburn didn't ease off his comments Sunday. On ABC, he was asked whether he regretted his rant. "Not only no, but hell no," Coburn answered. "I do not regret it one bit. It's the truth." He was asked if he thought the rules should change so that horses should have to participate in the other two races to run at Belmont. "Yes I do, I mean think of it this way. OK, it says Triple Crown. You nominate your horse for the Triple Crown -- that means three. The Triple Crown trophy has three points on it. So when you earn enough points to be in the Kentucky Derby, those 20 horses that start in the Kentucky Derby should be the only 20 allowed to run in the Preakness and the Belmont, for the Triple Crown." At a news conference, Sherman was asked what he thought of Coburn's comments at the race. Coburn was in "the heat of the moment," he said. "Sometimes your emotions get in front of you." CNN's Suzanne Presto contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/us/ed-obannon-ncaa-lawsuit/index.html	us	Ed O'Bannon and former college stars sue NCAA for right to make money - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 12:02:10 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- It was fourth and long and the clock was ticking down to half-time when the quarterback launched the Hail Mary pass. Tyrone Prothro charged down the field, reached around his opponent's head and caught the football, tumbling into the end zone to score for Alabama, still wrapped around the defender. The amazing catch propelled Prothro to stardom and, for a few weeks, the all-star receiver was one of the most talked about athletes in the world of college sports. The play was shown over and over again on television. That was September 10, 2005. Less than a month later, he shattered his leg, and with it, his NFL prospects. Prothro graduated from the University of Alabama but never made a cent from the thing he studied the most -- playing football. "(He) had something that was monetized on TV, played over and over again," said Sonny Vaccaro, the former Nike executive who practically invented the branding of athletes and has since become an advocate for paying them. While Alabama and the SEC cashed in on the astonishing play that was to win Best Play of the year in the 2006 ESPYs, Prothro struggled. He spent years fruitlessly trying to land a coaching job while working as a bank teller and then in pest control. Hardly the life he'd imagined on that Saturday in September 2005. That's the reality for many college athletes -- one that Prothro and more than a dozen other athletes are trying to change. They are all part of former UCLA basketball player Ed O'Bannon's lawsuit against the NCAA, which goes to trial on Monday. The suit seeks to end the NCAA's control over the rights to college athletes' names, images and likenesses. As it stands now, when they commit to a university, players are required to sign a waiver that relinquishes their right to their own likenesses in every form. That means they can't make money off their television appearances, their jerseys, or in any other way. Their universities get any revenues from selling sports paraphernalia or other material related to the players. The O'Bannon suit alleges the waivers the athletes are required to sign are illegal, and they want players to be able to collectively negotiate the terms of their likenesses. Basically, they want a share of those profits. "They've created a world where players can't negotiate," said Michael McCann, a sports-law attorney at the University of New Hampshire. A win for O'Bannon could change college sports drastically. The NCAA might have to restructure its amateur model, even start paying college athletes. Judge Claudia Wilken, who will decide the suit, has so far given the plaintiffs almost everything they've asked for, including the ability to amend and modify their lawsuit to give them a better chance at winning. That may be no indication of how she'll rule at the end of the trial, beginning Monday in federal court in Oakland, California. But experts in college sports and anti-trust law are predicting O'Bannon will prevail. Legal appeals will likely delay a final outcome for years, but the O'Bannon suit is still in a position to be the first major NCAA reform effort to take hold. The NCAA did not respond to repeated requests for comment over several days on O'Bannon's suit and the broader issues. O'Bannon's story In 2009, Ed O'Bannon was five years' retired from professional basketball. He'd worked hard to save money from his nine-year career in the NBA and Europe and was living a modest life with his wife and children in Las Vegas, when, during a visit at a friend's home, he first saw himself in an EA Sports college basketball video game. He decided it wasn't fair that while he was grinding away at work each day, the NCAA and EA sports were making big bucks off his likeness. So he decided to sue. In the last five years, his lawsuit has expanded to become the symbolic antagonist to the NCAA, which organizes college sports -- both those that generate revenue (basketball and football) and others such as soccer and lacrosse. "I want players to get what they deserve," O'Bannon told CNN in January. "I want to right a wrong, I want the game to change. I want the way the NCAA does business -- I want that to change." His case has morphed into a complicated web of issues. For several years it was merged with a similar suit filed by former quarterback Sam Keller. Then last year, EA Sports settled for $40 million and the company announced it would make no more video games featuring college teams. Keller's suit against the NCAA was separated and will go to its trial in 2015. In both cases, the NCAA isn't budging at all. What could be next For O'Bannon to win, the judge would have to agree that the waiver that players are forced to sign is illegal and demand that the NCAA pay athletes for the rights to their likenesses. This would completely change the way the NCAA works, and that would mean athletes would need some kind of union to negotiate. Already there is an organization on the sidelines waiting to help players handle the details. Attorney Ken Feinberg, known best as special master of the 9/11 victims compensation fund, has formed the Former College Athletes Association, which he says will be ready to act on behalf of the athletes if the NCAA settles or O'Bannon wins. "It will be ready to help represent athletes in sharing NCAA proceeds after they graduate from college and are in the marketplace earning a living like everyone else," Feinberg said. Unlike some of the other lawsuits against the NCAA that seek a free market for athletes, the O'Bannon case would put cash in the pockets of a large number of athletes -- maybe even benefiting those in the non-profit-generating sports. Feinberg says he envisions that the pool of money from television revenues would be evenly distributed to athletes on teams that are televised. "We're not going to get into the business of distinguishing between the bench warmer and the all-American tight end," he said. Players featured in video games and those whose jerseys are sold would get a cut of those profits, too. O'Bannon dropped the part of the lawsuit that would have sought payment for former players, but they could still potentially get royalties when classic games are aired on TV in the future. In all cases, the pay would come only after an athlete graduates or leaves school. Challenge to NCAA core  There is a catch -- O'Bannon is only suing the NCAA, and the NCAA doesn't make money off regular season television games. Revenue from the NCAA specifically comes from March Madness television contracts and from sports paraphernalia sales. It's the conferences and the schools that negotiate the TV deals for -- and profit from -- Saturday football and regular season basketball games. Sports-law attorney Michael McCann says he doesn't see that as much of a problem. He thinks that the NCAA could easily demand each of its member schools share in its new burden, and pull the money from universities and "demand that each member school contribute its fair share." Yet critics of the O'Bannon suit say it's a weak anti-trust claim, and that O'Bannon is suing the wrong entity, because the NCAA doesn't make money from the regular season television contracts. "You can bully people, that's not an antitrust violation," said Gary Roberts, a Indiana University sports-law attorney. Still, Roberts says that based on the public support and recognition the O'Bannon case has gotten, he thinks it's likely to win at trial but lose on appeal. Other efforts to dismantle the current NCAA model that have had less publicity might actually be more legally sound, Roberts said. At the heart of all the lawsuits is a core challenge to the current NCAA model. All the critics maintain that the NCAA is not keeping its promise to pay players with a free education. A CNN investigation found many public schools admit revenue-sport athletes with SAT and ACT academic scores far below the average of their peers. That leads to instances where players are forced into hodgepodge majors, grouped together in easy classes and getting too much help from tutors. A key example of that is at the University of North Carolina, where whistle-blower Mary Willingham and former athletes say "paper classes" were used to keep eligible athletes who were admitted at much lower standards than the rest of the student body. The NCAA has been widely criticized for not punishing UNC after the scandal was revealed. And many reformists have told CNN they believe it's fear of the O'Bannon suit that led the organization to look the other way at UNC. Willingham is listed as a potential witness in the O'Bannon trial. It's unclear if she will testify, but she told CNN this week that she was told to be on standby. O'Bannon's lawyer couldn't be reached for comment. For Prothro, there is no chance of cashing in on that ESPY-winning catch. Last month, the plaintiffs gave up their request for monetary damages in exchange for a bench trial, meaning there will be no jury, and the judge will make the decision. O'Bannon says the goal isn't to make money, it's to change the culture of the NCAA and college sports. "I think change, in my opinion, is inevitable. I think change needs to happen," O'Bannon said. "A lot of players don't have anything to show for their effort, when they go to school, because they put everything into that particular craft, and once it's done, life kind of chews them up and spits them out. "A player should be able to take what they did in college and kind of use that to, to their advantage, at least there should be something monetarily in the bank for them when they're done, they can fall back on." NCAA faces change, legal challenges in months ahead 'Amateurism is a myth'  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/world/asia/pakistan-karachi-airport-attacks/index.html	world	'Heroic' effort ends deadly terrorist attack in Pakistan - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 01:16:03 EDT 2014	Karachi, Pakistan (CNN) -- Terrorists entered Karachi's Jinnah International airport at two different spots with a big plan: to destroy a group of parked airplanes and "bring down our aviation industry," according to the Pakistani government. It was late Sunday night, and the militants were armed with guns, grenades, and suicide vests. They went into the cargo area, about a kilometer (0.62 miles) from where commercial planes take off. In a "heroic" effort, security forces "laid down their lives" to block the terminal and stop the attackers, surrounding them and killing all of them, the prime minister's office said in a statement. There were 10 terrorists, military spokesman Maj. Gen. Asim Bajwa said, and two of them detonated suicide vests. By the time the attack was over, 28 people were dead, including eight members of airport security forces, two Pakistan International Airlines employees and one ranger. Another 24 people were injured, the military said. The Pakistani Taliban has claimed responsibility for the assault on the country's largest and busiest airport. Speaking from an undisclosed location, Pakistani Taliban commander Abdullah Bahar said the attack was retaliation for the death of former chief Hakimullah Mehsud, who was killed in a U.S. drone strike in November in North Waziristan. Bahar warned more attacks will follow. "As long as we are breathing, our attacks will be continuing 'til the end of our lives," he vowed. Fire followed attack A building caught fire in the attack, but no planes were damaged, Bajwa said. The airport is expected to reopen later in the day. Some Pakistani media reported a renewed gun battle at the airport later Monday morning. But officials told CNN the noise was from fire-heated chemical containers exploding. Still, as a precaution, security forces opened fire, said Ahmad Chinoy of the Citizen's Police Liaison Committee. He said he was 100% sure there were no militants left in the airport. Several days ago, Pakistan's government had warned provincial officials of a possible "high-profile attack on a sensitive or key installation," said Qaim Ali Shah, chief minister of Sindh province. But the warning, he said, did not mention the airport. History of terror The Pakistani Taliban, which is formally known as Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), has long conducted an insurgency against the Pakistani government. "Their primary target is the Pakistani state and its military," said Raza Rumi of the Jinnah Institute, a Pakistani think tank. "It resents the fact that (Pakistan) has an alliance with the West, and it wants Sharia to be imposed in Pakistan." The group claimed responsibility for a December 2009 suicide bombing at the United States' Forward Operating Base Chapman in Khost, Afghanistan. The attack killed seven U.S. citizens, including five CIA officers and a member of Jordanian intelligence. The U.S. Justice Department charged Mehsud in 2010 for his alleged involvement in the attack. Mehsud took over from Baitullah Mehsud, a fellow clan member, in 2009 after the latter was killed in a U.S. drone strike. Four years later, Mehsud suffered the same fate. More claims and threats Another TTP member claimed that the Pakistani government has been "abducting and killing innocent people," and explained why the airport was targeted. "We chose a location where there would be less civilian and more official casualties," TTP representative Shahidullah Shahid said. Shahid warned the group will engage "in a full-out war with the Pakistani state, starting on June 10." But "if even now the Pakistani government backs down," Shahid said, "we are ready to engage in meaningful dialogue." Karachi airport attackers were disguised as security workers Sophia Saifi reported from Karachi; Holly Yan reported and wrote from Atlanta; and Saleem Mehsud reported from Islamabad. CNN's Saima Mohsin, Sanjay Gupta and Ben Brumfield contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/world/asia/australia-crocodile-attack/index.html	world	Australia: Human remains found in crocodile after fatal attack - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 02:55:11 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Authorities have recovered human remains from a large crocodile that's believed to have taken a man from his boat in Australia's remote north. Rangers shot dead two saltwater crocodiles in the Northern Territory's Kakadu National Park on Sunday after searching through the night for a 62-year-old man who was reportedly snatched at a waterhole on the South Alligator River the previous afternoon. One of the crocodiles, measuring around 15.5 feet (4.7 meters), contained human remains, police told reporters Sunday. A statement on the Northern Territory Police Force Facebook page said the victim's body had been recovered and a report would be prepared for the Coroner. The man had been fishing with his son, wife and daughter-in-law when the incident occurred, Northern Territory Police Sgt. Andrew Hocking said. The victim's family witnessed the attack but were unable to save him. With poor cellphone coverage across large parts of the remote region, the man's wife and daughter-in-law drove two hours to alert authorities to the attack, according to the Northern Territory News. Police and park rangers searched the area with a helicopter and boats over the weekend, and found two large crocodiles about a mile (1.5 kilometers) from where the man was last seen, according to Hocking. Police have not released the victim's name. "This is a tragic event and our thoughts are with the family during this very difficult time," said Commander Bruce Porter of the Northern Command. A crocodile expert, Grahame Webb, said it was unusual for the reptiles to attack at this time of year as they are rarely active during the cooler months, local media reported. "They tend to move around a lot more when it warms up... and that's when they're more dangerous," he said. The crocodile-infested waters of Kakadu National Park make it a notoriously hazardous area for humans. But most attacks involve swimmers, not people on boats, according to a study in the Wilderness & Environmental Medicine journal. In January, a 12-year-old boy was killed by a crocodile while swimming with friends in a waterhole near Mudginberri. Florida looking for crocodile response agents Crocodiles hunt with sticks  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/showbiz/tracy-morgan-crash/index.html	entertainment	Tracy Morgan critical but responsive after weekend crash - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 12:03:11 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Comedian Tracy Morgan remained in critical condition early Monday following a weekend car wreck, but the actor's publicist said he's showing signs of improvement. "He has been more responsive, which is an incredibly encouraging sign," publicist Lewis Kay said Sunday. The wreck took place about 1 a.m. Saturday when the limo van Morgan was in was hit by a tractor-trailer on the New Jersey Turnpike, police said. The collision killed Morgan's fellow passenger, comedian James McNair -- who performed under the name Jimmy Mack. Comedians Ardie Fuqua and Harris Stanton were among the injured, as was a man named Jeffrey Millea. Morgan's injuries Morgan suffered several injuries, including broken ribs, a broken nose, a broken leg and a broken femur. Kay, the publicist, said Morgan underwent surgery on his leg Sunday. "We expect him to remain in the hospital for several weeks," he said. The truck driver The truck driver charged in the crash turned himself in to police, and was released on a $50,000 bail Saturday night. The driver, 35-year-old Kevin Roper, is charged with one count of death by auto and four counts of assault by auto, the Middlesex County Prosecutor's Office said. He was a driver for Walmart. "This is a tragedy, and we are profoundly sorry that one of our trucks was involved," Bill Simon, president and CEO of Walmart U.S., said in a statement. "The facts are continuing to unfold. If it's determined that our truck caused the accident, Walmart will take full responsibility." Chain-reaction crash  The wreck occurred about 1 a.m. ET Saturday on the turnpike in Mercer County, said Sgt. Gregory Williams of New Jersey State Police. "The driver of the tractor-trailer failed to observe slow-moving traffic ahead," Williams said. "At the last minute, he swerved to try and avoid the Mercedes limo bus but struck it from behind, forcing the limo to rotate and overturn." Four other vehicles were involved in the crash, the prosecutor's office said, but no one in those vehicles was injured. Williams said he does not believe alcohol played a role in the crash, but that is under investigation. The National Transportation Safety Board will investigate "safety issues related to commercial trucking and limousine safety," said agency spokesman Keith Holloway. "All I know is I saw traffic ... and I stopped ... and I was upside down and in the vehicle," limo driver Tyrone Gale told WCAU. Gale suffered bruises in the crash, WCAU reported. Christopher Thompson, the co-owner of Atlantic Transportation Services, which was operating the limo bus, said he thought the bus was heading to drop Morgan off in New Jersey. From SNL to '30 Rock' Morgan, 45, was a regular on "Saturday Night Live" for seven years. He later received an Emmy nomination for his role in the comedy series "30 Rock," in which he played Tracy Jordan, an exaggerated version of himself. The New York City native made his reputation with over-the-top characters and impressions of celebrities such as Mike Tyson and Oprah Winfrey. Morgan performed a comedy act Friday night at the Dover Downs Hotel & Casino in Dover, Delaware, the venue said. Kay said Morgan's family "is tremendously overwhelmed and appreciative of the outpouring of love and support from his fans." Funny man Tracy Morgan has known fame and foibles CNN's Ralph Ellis, Holly Yan, Alexa Miranda, Suzanne Presto, Chris Welch, Faith Karimi, Rachel Wells, Carma Hassan, Joe Sutton, Alexandra Field and Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/world/asia/india-dam-surge-students/index.html	world	Dam surge sweeps away students in India - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 02:47:10 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- More than 20 Indian college students and their coordinator were swept away after a dam opened its floodgates apparently without warning and sent water surging down a Himalayan valley. Rescuers have so far recovered only three bodies from the fast-moving river in the Mandi district of Indian's northern Himachal Pradesh state, police spokesman Kuldeep Singh Rana told CNN. Emergency crews with divers and rafters were at the scene Monday trying to locate the remaining students, Rana said, though he warned the steep, rugged terrain of the valley was making the search operation challenging. The incident took place at around 6.30 p.m. local time on Sunday when the group from an engineering college in southern India pulled over to take photographs along the Beas river. All of a sudden, huge volumes of water hurtled downstream after being released from a reservoir at a local hydroelectric power plant, police said. "Apparently there was no prior notice about the release (of water) from the dam. But an inquiry is being conducted," Rana said. Local residents in the area staged protests in the aftermath of the incident.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/us/bowe-bergdahl-release/index.html	us	The Bergdahl exchange: the weekend developments - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 02:27:02 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The negotiated release of U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl for five Taliban figures has turned into a whirlwind of controversy -- some of it political and some of it from the very soldiers he served with in Afghanistan. New information on both fronts came to light over the weekend, including new details on Bergdahl himself, the conditions he faced in captivity and how he's adjusting to his freedom -- both physically and mentally. He was kept in a cage Bergdahl is recovering at a U.S. military hospital in Germany as details slowly emerge about the conditions endured during five years of captivity. Citing an American official, The New York Times reported Sunday that Bergdahl told medical staff that the box he was kept in for weeks at a time was pitch black and like a shark cage. CNN reported Friday that Bergdahl has said he was kept in a small box after trying to escape, according to a senior U.S. official, who spoke on the condition of not being identified. The official also told CNN that Bergdahl suffers from psychological trauma caused by physical abuse. A Taliban source with knowledge of Bergdahl's captivity told CNN's Nic Robertson on Sunday that Bergdahl escaped at one point and was on the run for three days. When he was recaptured after that attempt, according to the Taliban source, he was not punished with a cage or cell, but was taken to a more secure location where he had no chance to escape. A U.S. official told CNN last week that Bergdahl may have tried to escape his Taliban captors on at least two occasions. He hasn't spoken to his parents yet Doctors at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, where Bergdahl was taken after his handover, said Friday that he was in stable condition and continued to improve but wasn't ready to travel to the United States. "There is no predetermined timeline for Sgt. Bergdahl's recovery process," a hospital statement said. "The duration will continue to be based on the pace of his healing and reintegration process." When he is ready, Bergdahl will be flown to the San Antonio Military Medical Center in Texas, where he may be able to reunite with his parents. Bergdahl has not spoken with them since his release. He wants to be recognized by his old rank The Times report added that Bergdahl has taken walks outside his hospital room while wearing his Army uniform, according to the American official. Bergdahl, who was promoted twice on schedule while in captivity, objects to being called sergeant, the Times reported. Bergdahl said he wants to be recognized by his old rank, a senior U.S. official told CNN Pentagon Correspondent Barbara Starr on Sunday. Bergdahl was a private first class when he went missing on June 30, 2009, in Afghanistan's Paktika province, where he was deployed with the 1st Battalion, 501st Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division. "In his mind, he's a Pfc," the official told Starr. READ: U.S. official: Bergdahl wants to be called private first class His parents have received threats The FBI is investigating threats against Bergdahl's parents, who have not been seen publicly since sending their son messages of love through a news conference days after his release. "We are working jointly with our state and local partners and taking each threat seriously," FBI Special Agent William Facer told CNN in an e-mail Saturday. Facer declined to detail the nature and severity of the threats, and a military representative for the Bergdahls declined to comment. Bergdahl's father received threats in three messages via e-mail at his home, according to a law enforcement official familiar with the contents of the e-mail. The first threat came on Wednesday, the official said, adding that FBI investigators will be tracing the messages to pinpoint who sent them. Since Bergdahl's release, critics, including a former member of his unit, have contended that Bergdahl deserted. The Army concluded in a 2009 report that he left his post deliberately. But the Army has no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials can't learn without talking to the soldier, a U.S. military official told CNN. The administration minimizes released detainees' threat Much of the political fallout from the Bergdahl release centers around the five Taliban figures who also gained their freedom in the exchange. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry warned Sunday that the former detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, would be taking an "enormous risk" if they return to the battlefield. "I'm not telling you that they don't have some ability at some point to go back and get involved (in fighting). But they also have an ability to get killed doing that. " Kerry said in his first public comments on the controversial prisoner exchange. Kerry defended the swap and told CNN the former detainees will be monitored closely -- and not just by officials in Qatar, where they were flown after being released. He wouldn't say who else will be watching, but he said the United States is confident the conditions of their release will be honored. "And if they're violated, then we have the ability to be able to do things," he said, warning that the United States would do whatever is necessary to protect Americans "if these guys pick a fight with us in the future, or now, or at any time." Bergdahl was released May 31 near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Republican critics in Washington have complained that the exchange for Bergdahl gave up hardened terrorists capable of attacking U.S. troops and interests. In addition, legislators from both parties accuse the Obama administration of violating the National Defense Authorization Act by failing to provide 30 days' advance notice to Congress of a transfer of Guantanamo detainees. Administration officials have given several reasons for the lack of notification -- a need to move quickly due to Bergdahl's poor health and the overall threat to his safety, and the likelihood that even a small leak of the plan could have led to his death. READ: How did six soldiers die after Bergdahl's disappearance? Lawmakers are skeptical Senior members of the House and Senate intelligence committees have their doubts. "We'll see" was Sen. Dianne Feinstein's skeptical response to Kerry on CBS News' "Face the Nation." "You can't help but worry about them in Doha," said the California Democrat, who chairs the Senate Intelligence Committee. Rep. Mike Rogers, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said that after the one-year travel ban expires for the former detainees, he is "absolutely convinced" that at least four of the five Taliban will "join the fight against what Americans are left in Afghanistan." Kerry dismissed that concern, saying that the U.S. combat mission is coming to an end and pronouncements by the Taliban vowing to rejoin the fight are nothing but "propaganda." But Rogers said that "hostilities haven't stopped." "This was the wrong message at the wrong time, and we are going to pay for this decision for years," the Alabama Republican said Sunday on ABC's "This Week." Several briefings are planned this week Following a classified briefing for senators last week, all House members will receive a closed-door briefing from White House, Pentagon and State Department officials on Monday. On Tuesday, administration officials will hold another session with the upper chamber, briefing members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. The real fireworks are expected to come Wednesday when Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel is scheduled to testify before the House Armed Services Committee, where he'll likely face questions of the administration's failure to seek congressional input on the deal that secured Bergdahl's release. Some platoonmates blame Bergdahl for soldiers' deaths Much attention has been given to the claim made by the former platoonmates of Bergdahl that he is partly to blame for the deaths of six soldiers who were killed in the months after Bergdahl disappeared. Some soldiers have gone so far as to say the six died while searching for Bergdahl. Others say he is indirectly to blame -- after Bergdahl vanished, essentially every operation became a mission to find their lost colleague in one way or another, they say. Critics accuse the soldiers of smearing Bergdahl and exaggerating the role his disappearance played in the deaths of the six men, who were often in harm's way while on patrol Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said he didn't "know of circumstances or details of U.S. soldiers dying as a result of efforts to find and rescue Sgt. Bergdahl." A U.S. official told CNN last week that Pentagon and Army officials have looked at the claims, and "right now there is no evidence to back that up." The six men killed were in the 501st Infantry. All of them were killed in Pakitika Province between August 18 and September 6, 2009, after the intense initial search for Bergdahl concluded but within the two- to three-month period when, by accounts from more than 20 members of the 501st, essentially every mission in the province had a PR, or personnel recovery component to it. One of those killed was from Comanche Company, two of those killed were in Bergdahl's Blackfoot Company, three were from Headquarters Company. READ: How did 6 die after Bowe Bergdahl's disappearance? READ: Susan Rice defends Bergdahl comments, calls his service 'honorable' READ: The Bergdahl Files: A custom magazine CNN's Elise Labott, Barbara Starr, Qadir Sediqi, Ed Lavandera, Devon Sayers and Shimon Prokupecz contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/us/bergdahl-search-soldiers/index.html	us	How did 6 die after Bowe Bergdahl's disappearance? - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 06:18:54 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Much attention has been given to the claim made by the former platoonmates of Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl that he is partly to blame for the deaths of six soldiers who were killed in the months after Bergdahl disappeared. Some soldiers have gone so far as to say the six died while searching for Bergdahl. Others say he is indirectly to blame -- after Bergdahl vanished, essentially every operation became a mission to find their lost colleague in one way or another, they say. "I can't really say I blame Bergdahl to the fullest extent," former Staff Sgt. Justin Gerleve, Bergdahl's squad leader, told CNN last week, "but if he wouldn't have deserted us, these soldiers very well could have been in a different place at a different time, rather than the place at the time of their death." Interviews with soldiers familiar with the specific missions in which the six died suggest the charge is complicated -- but not without merit given how much the 501st Parachute Infantry Regiment became focused on "PR" -- personnel recovery -- after Bergdahl vanished from his guard post on June 30, 2009. "The fact of the matter is, when those soldiers were killed, they would not have been where they were at if Bergdahl had not have left," said former Sgt. Evan Buetow, Bergdahl's former team leader. "Bergdahl leaving changed the mission." Those charges were repeated by a noncommissioned officer who requested anonymity because he is still in the Army, one who described himself as a two-time voter for President Obama, lest anyone think his comments were political in any way. "If Bergdahl hadn't left it's entirely plausible that they wouldn't have had those follow-on missions or been where they were," said the NCO, who served in the 501st. Some also argue that the personnel recovery mission angered the local population, and created patterns in troops' movement that made insurgent attacks easier. None of that has been enough to quell critics who accuse the soldiers of smearing Bergdahl and exaggerating the role his disappearance played in the deaths of the six men. A New York Times story cited by critics of the soldiers from the 501st now calling Bergdahl a deserter doesn't go into much detail about the six men from Bergdahl's battalion, instead focusing on a separate attack that killed two mortarmen. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said he didn't "know of circumstances or details of U.S. soldiers dying as a result of efforts to find and rescue Sgt. Bergdahl." A U.S. official told CNN last week that Pentagon and Army officials have looked at the claims, and "right now there is no evidence to back that up." The six men killed were in the 501st Infantry. All of them were killed in Paktika Province between August 18 and September 6, 2009, after the intense initial search for Bergdahl concluded but within the two- to three-month period when, by accounts from more than 20 members of the 501st, essentially every mission in the province had a PR component to it. One of those killed was from Comanche Company, two of those killed were in Bergdahl's Blackfoot Company, three were from Headquarters Company. The six soldiers at center of Bowe Bergdahl debate Here are the circumstances and details, gleaned from interviews with more than a dozen troops in the 501st, all of whom said they were motivated entirely by getting the truth out, regardless of the politics. 1) August 18, 2009 -- Staff Sgt. Clayton Bowen and Pfc. Morris Walker were killed by an IED Bowen and Morris were part of Headquarters Company, but attached to Comanche Company, which "was conducting a recon of polling sites in order to prepare for the election on August 20," recalls a former officer from the 501st, one of whom describes his politics as left of center but who asked not to be named because of the rhetoric and accusations being leveled against troops who served with Bergdahl. In the aftermath of the initial search for Bergdahl, called DUSTWUN (for DUTY STATUS: WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN), the officer recalls, "there were numerous polling sites that had to be closed because security was so poor. Their platoon slept overnight at a remote site, and when they started rolling again the next morning, an IED detonated. A 501st soldier with Comanche Company recalled the device "had been located right under their right back tire." The mission was not specifically focused on personnel recovery but the officer said he believes Bergdahl's disappearance played something of a role in the attack since this "was the absolute worst part of western Paktika province, and it was the subject of numerous air assaults in July" that were directly focused on Bergdahl. "I believe those contributed to the worsening security situation." Bowen, 29, was from San Antonio, Texas. Walker, 23, was from Fayetteville, North Carolina. 2) August 26, 2009 -- Staff Sgt. Kurt Curtiss is killed by small arms fire This incident occurred after the battalion received information that the Taliban shadow sub-governor of Sar Hawza district in Paktika province -- a man who went by the name "Muslim" -- had effectively taken a local clinic hostage as he received medical treatment for wounds he received during the election, according to the former officer from the 501st. To the leadership of the 501st, the name "Muslim" prompted an immediate response as he was supposedly connected to Bergdahl's captors, the former officer said. An intelligence source told CNN the incident involved a commander with the terrorist Haqqani network, working directly for Mullah Sangin Zadran, the Paktika shadow governor, widely believed to have Bergdahl in his custody. "He was important as part of the mission to get to Bergdahl," the source said. The former 501st officer echoed that detail: "The relation to Bergdahl made him a priority target." The 4th Platoon from Delaware Company was sent to seize the Taliban official. Some from the insurgent group surrendered, but "Muslim" was nowhere to be found. "Curtiss took his squad to search an empty building adjacent to the clinic that the Afghan National Police had supposedly cleared," the officer recalled. "It was empty, but a storage room door was wedged shut. He and his squad kicked in the door, and Curtiss was the first guy in." Troops there that day say "Muslim" had been in the room hiding with three bodyguards, who shot Curtiss. Additionally, 501st sources say, the insurgents threw Curtiss' grenades at the squad, after which a two-hour firefight ensued -- one that ended with Apache helicopters strafing the building. The building caught fire and killed all the insurgents except for one bodyguard, who was severely wounded. Curtiss' body was recovered before the fire. Curtiss, 27, was from Salt Lake City, and had already done two deployments in Iraq. He left behind a wife, son and daughter. 3) September 4, 2009 -- 2nd Lt. Darryn Andrews and Pfc. Matthew Michael Martinek are attacked by an IED and a rocket-propelled grenade Andrews and Martinek were in Bergdahl's company, Blackfoot, and were in the village of Palau, just outside of Yaya Kayhl, one of the last places where Bergdahl was believed to have gone. After Bergdahl disappeared, local Afghans and intercepted Internet chatter placed him in that area, according to multiple sources with the 501st. Andrews and Martinek were there to conduct atmospherics -- basically check anything and everything around Palau. According to several sources in Blackfoot Company, among the many questions those soldiers wanted answered was: where is Bergdahl? Where are the guys who have him? Was Palau connected with the insurgents -- who by then it was believed -- had transported Bergdahl to Pakistan? But the platoon hit an IED. In the aftermath, a cluster of soldiers tried to hook the vehicle up to chains for the wrecker and were stuck out there for hours on end. In the midst of the effort, an RPG hit them and an insurgent ambush began, according to multiple soldiers with Blackfoot company. Andrews yelled that the RPG was coming and knocked a bunch of guys out of the way. "Jason watch out," were said to have been his last words, soldiers told Andrews' father. He was killed instantly. The ambush brought relentless amounts of RPG and heavy artillery fire on the platoon. Martinek was trying to call for air support when he took a severely debilitating artillery round. He lived long enough to get to Landstuhl in Germany where he was taken off life support and died on September 11. Other members of the platoon faced severe wounds, from a jaw blown off, to deafness, to severe psychological issues from that day, according to sources in Blackfoot company and the 501st. It wasn't a formal DUSTWUN mission, but it wasn't unrelated, the former 501st officer said. Moreover, says Buetow, Blackfoot Company's mission tasking was about to change. "We were told we were moving south to start focusing on another area of the province," Buetow says. "Our four-day mission to Observation Post Mest was going to be our last trip out there before moving south. Bowe Bergdahl left, so we then stayed in that area for several more months. We stayed in the area because Bergdahl was last known to be in that area. If he had never deserted, Andrews and Martinek would not have been on patrol in that area." Andrews, 34, was from Dallas. He and his wife had a 2-year-old son and were expecting their second child when he was killed. Martinek, 20, was from Dekalb, Illinois. Andrews' heroism eats at former Spc. Jose Baggett, a member of Blackfoot Company. "He pushed a sergeant out of the way" of the RPG, "and now I'm stuck watching" Bergdahl get attention from politicians, the military and the media "and they're dead and he's alive." 4) September 5, 2009 -- Staff Sgt. Michael Murphrey is hit by an IED Da Dila Panegir village was part of an area that had been subject to searches during the DUSTWUN, and Comanche Company was charged with trying to win the locals back. That day they conducted a foot patrol to hand out supplies and meet with the leaders. In the course of the mission, Murphrey stepped on a pressurized plate that unleashed an IED and was severely wounded; he died at Forward Operating Base Sharana's hospital the next day. That mission "wasn't an exact search, it was a 'Keep your eyes out for Bowe Bergdahl while you're there,'" said former Spc. Joseph Cox of Comanche Company, who calls Murphrey his best friend and squad leader. And yet, the intensity of the DUSTWUN search had also enraged Afghans, soldiers said. "Our platoon alone conducted more than 20 inserted missions operations within three days. There were massive insertions to find him," Cox said. "This mission was probably the least related to Bergdahl" of the four missions, the former officer said, "but it was definitely in an area previously targeted -- an area where they already hated us before, but hated us more because of the search." Murphrey, 25, left behind a wife, son, and daughter. Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. John Kirby had no specific comment about the four operations. "Each death in war is tragic in its own right," Kirby said. "We will always keep in our thoughts and prayers those we have lost, as well as their families. The Army will review the circumstances surrounding Sgt. Bergdahl's disappearance and captivity. Our focus right now is on making sure Sgt. Bergdahl gets the care he needs to recover and reunite with his family." The Bergdahl Files: A custom magazine  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/us/adam-silver-nichols-interview/index.html	us	NBA commissioner Adam Silver to CNN: Donald Sterling saga not over yet - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 08:00:13 EDT 2014	Watch Rachel Nichols' full interview with Adam Silver on CNN's "Unguarded," Friday at 10:30 p.m. ET (CNN) -- Nearly two weeks after former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer offered the winning bid to buy the Los Angeles Clippers from embattled owner Donald Sterling, the man who hastened Sterling's departure isn't ready to call it a done deal. "When it's done, then we can take a deep breath," NBA commissioner Adam Silver told CNN's Rachel Nichols on Sunday. Until then, Silver notes, Sterling still hasn't withdrawn a billion-dollar lawsuit against the NBA. He's also wary of the litigious Sterling, whom he says he's known for decades. "He's unsold his club several times over the years," Silver said. "There's well-noted incidents in the league when he was right there at a closing and at the last minute decided not to sell. And until he signs that document, we still have a pending litigation with him." Donald Sterling agrees to sale of Los Angeles Clippers In his first extended interview since recorded racist remarks made by Sterling were leaked online, Silver gave Nichols a behind-the-scenes glimpse into the scandal that thrust the rookie commissioner into the spotlight just months into the job. The racist remarks sparked a media firestorm and prompted players to threaten to boycott in the midst of the playoffs if action wasn't taken. Sterling scandal: NBA Commissioner Adam Silver's moment to shine "You deal with the cards as they're dealt," Silver told Nichols. "And we dealt with it." Silver, who hasn't even moved into predecessor David Stern's office yet, banned Sterling from the league for life just days after the recordings were leaked, fined him $2.5 million and pushed through a charge to terminate all of his ownership rights in the franchise. Silver earned near-universal praise for the swift and decisive action he took, even if the fledgling boss didn't quite grasp the magnitude of what he was doing at the time. "I [hadn't] walked out on such a large stage, really, ever in my career with that many cameras, that many members of the media," he told Nichols about the April 29 press conference in which he announced the punitive action against Sterling. "Up until the last second, I was really writing what I was going to say." Nichols asked Silver why nothing had been done about Sterling before, given past accusations of racism made against him. "I don't have a good answer for that," he said. "I was at the league during that time, so I don't want to run from it." But he speculated that the pervasiveness of social media helped catapult the latest scandal into his office. I think in the old days it was a little bit different," he said. "Conduct that had nothing to do with what happened in the NBA ... didn't come to our attention in the same way. ... Clearly there's a different standard now in part because of social media and because there's a much greater awareness now of how that behavior can affect people and impact our league." Still, Silver hasn't yet absorbed what his action against Sterling symbolizes for the African-American community as a whole. And he doesn't see that happening anytime soon, since he is still "working around the clock virtually on trying to end this" scandal.  Silver also addressed a non-Sterling-related scandal that he has been challenged with in his brief tenure: "Cramp-gate." The air-conditioning inside San Antonio's AT&T Center failed during Game 1 of the NBA Finals on Thursday, sending the arena into sweltering conditions and Heat star LeBron James to the bench with cramps. While some are floating conspiracy theories on behalf of the Spurs -- something Silver dismisses -- he nevertheless doesn't run from that either and says the buck stops with the commissioner. "I'm ultimately responsible," he told Nichols.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/showbiz/2014-tony-awards-highlights/index.html	entertainment	Bouncing, rapping Hugh Jackman delivers host of Tony surprises - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 04:17:53 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The Tony Awards don't usually match the drama of the Oscars, but the 2014 edition at New York's Radio City Music Hall did deliver surprises and buzzworthy moments Sunday. Bouncing Hugh Jackman If you are baffled by Hugh Jackman's prolonged bouncing during the Tony Awards opening sequence, you might want to watch online video of musical actor Bobby Van performing "Take Me to Broadway" in the 1953 movie "Small Town Girl." You'll then understand what inspired Jackman to hop, skip and jump from the red carpet, through the backstage and then onstage where he sang "I Love the Tonys." 'Music Man' rap Jackman must have spent a lot of time researching 1950s musicals while preparing to host the 2014 Tonys. He revived the opening number from "The Music Man," but turned it into a rap song. Hip hop artists LL Cool J and T.I. joined Jackman for an unconventional performance of "Rock Island." "Hands in the air, everybody on your feet," LL Cool J shouted as a drum beat produced by Questlove played. First Hip Hop performance on #thetonyawards w/ troubleman31 thehughjackman http://t.co/oEZhPSMirA "First Hip Hop performance on #thetonyawards w/@troubleman31 @thehughjackman," LL Cool J tweeted. Judging from Twitter reactions, many viewers loved it, some didn't, while others were just left puzzled. 'Denzel, Denzel, Denzel' A hint of sour grapes emerged from "A Raisin in the Sun" director Kenny Leon even though his show carried home three Tonys Sunday night. Leon, who won for best direction of a play and best revival of a play, acknowledged backstage that he believed his lead actor, Denzel Washington, should have gotten a best actor nomination. "Yes, Denzel was snubbed," Leon told reporters. Washington, who owns two Academy Awards for film work, is the "anchor" of the Broadway production, Leon said in his acceptance speech. "Denzel, Denzel, Denzel. He's truly a theatre inspiration." Leon did find some solace when Sophie Okonedo, who he called his show's "glue," was given the Tony for best actress in a featured role in a play. "A Raisin in the Sun," which first ran on Broadway in 1960, was the first Broadway play written by an African-American woman -- Lorraine Hansberry. 'All the Way' with LBJ If Denzel Washington had been nominated, he would have faced Bryan Cranston. The "Breaking Bad" actor's ability to bring complex characters to life earned him a best actor Tony for his stage portrayal of former President Lyndon Johnson in "All the Way." The Tony might find a place of honor next to the three Emmys Cranston won for his TV role of teacher-turned-meth dealer Walter White. Cranston wouldn't say backstage if he would reprise his LBJ role in author Robert Schenkkan's follow up play "The Great Society." "Thank you for electing LBJ once again," producer Jeffrey Richards said as he accepted the best play Tony for "All the Way." Tony history made Audra McDonald made Broadway history when she won the Tony for best lead actress in a play for her portrayal of blues legend Billie Holiday in "Lady Day at Emerson's Bar & Grill." McDonald's sixth Tony made her the first person to win in four different acting categories. "I want to thank my mom and my dad up in heaven for disobeying the doctor's orders and not medicating their hyperactive girl and finding out what she was into instead and pushing her into the theatre," McDonald said in her acceptance speech. She also paid tribute to women who paved the way for her success. "I'm standing on Lena Horne, I'm standing on Maya Angelou, Diane Carroll, Ruby Dean, and most of all, Billie Holiday. You deserved so much more than you were given when you were on this planet. This is for you Billie." "Lady Day at Emerson's Bar & Grill" -- billed as "an evening filled with personal tales of difficult choices, bad breaks, worse men and some of the most glorious songs ever written" -- also won the Tony for best sound design of a play. 'This is crazy pants!' What's a Tony Awards show without lots of Neal Patrick Harris? The actor who hosted the broadcast the previous four years got plenty of screen time Sunday night, including 90 seconds to accept the Tony for best actor in a leading role in a musical. "A year ago I was hosting the Tonys," Harris said. "This is crazy pants!" Harris was honored for his title role in "Hedwig and the Angry Inch," a musical about a rock band led by a German transgender singer. Harris, who is known for his big musical numbers as a Tony host, did not disappoint when he performed a song from the show with the "Tits of Clay" band. "Hedwig" also won for best revival of a musical and Lena Hall got a Tony for best featured actress in a musical. Hall's acceptance speech included a "thank you" to "my soon-to-be born niece. I don't know her name is yet but she'll be born in October." Two Carole Kings Jessie Mueller not only won a Tony for best lead actress in a musical, but she got to sing with the woman she portrays in "Beautiful - The Carole King Musical." "Carole King, I never thought that I would get to sing with you once in my life -- let alone twice," Mueller said in her acceptance. "You have taught me so much and you teach me so much every time I get up on stage. What you went through and to come out of it with kindness and love and forgiveness and pure heart. And you're just such an amazing woman." King joined Mueller for part of her performance as a young Carole King. The show also won a Tony for best sound design of a musical, which went to Brian Ronan. Thanks to mom for skydiving lessons The Tony for best musical went to "A Gentleman's Guide to Love & Murder," which also earned a best director Tony for Darko Tresnjak. "I should thank so many people, but most of all, my mom literally taught me to jump out of airplanes," the director said in his acceptance speech. "She fought during the Second World War and she was a skydiver in 1940's." He then spoke for several seconds in his native Serbian language to his 87-year-old mother. "A Gentleman's Guide to Love & Murder," which is based on the 1907 novel "Israel Rank: The Autobiography of a Criminal," also won Tonys for best costume design of a musical and best book of a musical. Praise shouting genie James Monroe Iglehart might have earned the distinction of best acceptance speech dance. Iglehart, who sings and dances as the genie in "Aladdin," erupted in joy after he was handed the Tony for best performance by an actor in a featured role in a musical. "I know this is supposed to be the most, you know, dignified awards show of the season, but I have to do this," he said. "This is a praise shout." He then shouted "hey" and danced. Iglehart told reporters backstage that he and his wife would celebrate his Tony with dinner at McDonalds, saying it keeps them grounded.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/sport/football/jennifer-lopez-world-cup-performance/index.html	iSport	Jennifer Lopez to skip World Cup opener in Brazil - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 12:13:53 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook Los Angeles (CNN) -- "We are one"? Not quite. Singer Jennifer Lopez, who was supposed to perform the official song of this year's World Cup at the opening ceremony this week, has pulled out. "Regretfully Jennifer Lopez will not be attending this year's World Cup opening ceremonies," her rep told CNN in a statement late Sunday night. No reason was offered. Lopez teamed up with rapper Pitbull and Brazilian star Claudia Leitte to record Brazil 2014's official song, "We Are One (Ola Ola)." The trio was slated to perform at the tournament's opening ceremony ahead of the host's first match with Croatia on Sao Paulo on Thursday. The World Cup song has been a tradition since the 1966 World Cup in England, when a song dedicated to tournament mascot, a lion named "World Cup Willie" was released. Four years ago, it was Shakira telling the world to "Waka Waka" ahead of South Africa 2010. Soon after the song was released, Pit Bull, who has previously worked with the likes of Christina Aguilera and Enrique Iglesias, spoke of his joy at being involved in the project. "I'm honored to join Jennifer Lopez and Claudia Leitte at the FIFA World Cup to bring the world together," said Pitbull. "I truly believe that this great game and the power of music will help unify us, because we are best when we are one." Read: Hosts Brazil to play Croatia in opening match Read: The World Cup in numbers  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/health/weight-loss-akilah-monifa/index.html	health	Weight loss success: Loves food but lost weight - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:35:45 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Do you have a weight-loss success story to share? Tell us how you did it and you could be featured in our weekly weight-loss story on CNN.com. (CNN) -- Akilah Monifa wasn't a foodie until she lost 222 pounds. The San Francisco-based communications director says she never used to taste her food. She ate mainly to feed an addiction. "I ate a lot of junk, and I wasn't mindful about what I ate," Monifa said. But unlike with drugs or alcohol, where an addict can stop the behavior that they are addicted to, she knew she couldn't stop eating. So she decided instead to stop eating and drinking out of habit. She started with small changes. She gave up diet soda first. For her it was a real sacrifice. "I would drink maybe six to eight Diet Cokes a day. I know people think it's OK to drink since it doesn't have calories, but I realized I never really had it on its own," Monifa said. "I was usually rinsing down a big bag of chips with it." So she gave up chips. After that she stopped eating the M&Ms, their bright colors always taunting her from the bowl at a woman's desk outside her office door. The tipping point At her heaviest, Monifa weighed over 400 pounds. She says there was no one moment when she realized she needed to lose weight. The knowledge came in small waves. Her daughter complained she walked too slow. She couldn't join her friends on rides at the amusement park because she exceeded the weight limits. When she flew she had to use a seatbelt extender and actually got bumped once from a flight. When she got off the plane the gate agent told her he would put it in her profile that she had to buy two seats. Monifa, 57, doesn't know exactly how she put on the weight. She just knows she gained about 10 to 15 pounds a year after the age of 15. "I don't know at what point I remember thinking, 'Woops, I'm over 200 pounds now,'" Monifa said. Subconsciously, she may have been avoiding situations where she'd have to confront it. "I then started telling myself things like, 'I'll never weigh more than 200 pounds. Then it became I'll never weigh more than 250, then 300, then 350. Then it became 400," Monifa said. Her mother, and then her partner, bought her clothes. She stopped weighing herself when she got to 389 pounds. She later realized she had even stopped looking in the mirror. "There was a window on a department store, and I remember seeing someone out of the corner of my eye and thinking 'Who is that big fat person behind me?' It slowly dawned on me. That was me." The surgery  She decided she had to do something drastic. She looked into gastric bypass; a friend had lost 110 pounds with the surgery. With gastric bypass, doctors create a small pouch at the top of your stomach and bypass the rest to send food straight to the small intestine. The walnut-sized pouch can only hold about an ounce of food. "Right when I was thinking about it, I got a call from a friend who said that woman had passed," Monifa said. "I put the surgery off. I wasn't losing my life over it." Three year ago, she worked up the nerve to look into it again. Her insurance covered a program at Stanford. It started on the right note with a lecture from the physician who would do her surgery. "He said he did 2,000 surgeries and had no fatalities and he grew up in Huntsville, Alabama, which is where I once lived," Monifa said. "I took that as a sign that it was going to be OK." In August 2012, she had surgery. She weighed 330 pounds. The first two weeks weren't bad. She didn't mind the liquid, high-protein diet. She soon graduated to eating small quantities. But then she slipped into an old habit. She was running late on the way to the gym. She stopped at a drive-thru. After one bite she threw up. That's when she gave up fast food for good. By the time she went back to work in October she was down to 280 pounds. "None of the clothes I had fit, so I posted that on Facebook and people started giving me clothes in vast quantities. People were so incredibly supportive." They were also confused. "It's funny, when people hear that you have had gastric bypass, it's almost like they think you've had liposuction and had the fat removed, but that's not the case," Monifa said. "A lot of what helps you lose weight afterward are all the changes you have to make." She eats five or six small meals a day and takes advantage of San Francisco's reputation as an inventive mecca for foodies. She now enjoys fresh vegetables from the farmer's market or a new take on a classic Asian dish. She'll eat anything baked, broiled or grilled. She eats slowly to enjoy the taste and the smell and the quality. And if she does get a craving, she'll eat a tiny amount of something rather than the entire container. "I bought a quart of vanilla ice cream when I moved into my place a year ago, and it is still there," Monifa said. Group therapy helped. Setting exercise goals did, too. Her step counter reminds her to get at least 10,000 steps each day. And she didn't just join one gym, she joined two. A 24-hour facility by her house in Oakland and a gym right down the street from work in San Francisco. "Since that one is a lot of money, it motivates me to go every day," Monifa said. "And it feels like a treat. It's that fancy. I feel like a woman of luxury on the scene." Socializing now is about activity, rather than food. She takes walks with friends and plays basketball with her son. She plays tennis and swims. When she does dine out she looks at the menu online and decides what healthy option to have ahead of time so she's not tempted. She cuts her meal into a smaller portion and takes the leftovers home. The true transformation The 5-foot-11-inch woman is down to 179 pounds. Her goal used to be 190. "I feel good, and I feel healthy," Monifa said. Her sleep apnea equipment and high blood pressure medicine are gone. Her lower back and joint pain disappeared. And she takes the time to celebrate what she calls the NSVs: the little non-scale victories. Signing up for a charity walk, she relished when the staff insisted she take a medium T-shirt rather than her request for "the largest size you have." She tucks in her shirt now, showing off her waist. She has even started to date. And finally, after all these years, she looks in the mirror. "I've never felt good about myself, about my looks. Now I feel like I could attract someone. My friend from college jokes that it is time I should be in a lesbian power couple, but really now I just want someone who can hold their own with me in this world. "I finally see that I'm worth it."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/travel/denali-road/index.html	travel	Witty signs keep drivers' focused on tricky Alaskan road - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 10:45:33 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Although residents often like to joke that it is, the mosquito isn't actually Alaska's official state bird. (That'd be the willow ptarmigan.) You also won't see many coconut trees growing in the far north. Judging by signage along Grande Drive in Denali, Alaska, however, you might not necessarily know those things. Appearing along the steep, winding ascent to the top of Sugarloaf Mountain, road signs depicting giant mosquitoes carrying off human prey and warning of falling coconuts are clearly meant to get a laugh out of drivers. Just less than a mile long and costing about $1 million to build, the mostly dirt road (some sharp corners are paved) leads to the Grande Denali Lodge. Construction on the road began in 2000; the hotel opened in 2002. Installed in stages over the past four or five years, according to Grande Denali Lodge general manager Joe Merrill, the signs were the brainchild of Dennis Brandon, a marketing consultant for the hotel who has a long history in the hospitality industry in Alaska. "The collection has been added to each year," says Merrill. "The ideas (for the signs) now come out of different peoples' minds." MORE: 10 of the world's best drives Tiny town, big mountains More a small collection of businesses than a town, the bulk of Denali (also unofficially referred to as "The Canyon" and Glitter Gulch) is located less than two miles from the entrance to Denali National Park and Preserve. The park is home to some of the greatest wildlife viewing opportunities in the world -- grizzly bear, moose, Dall sheep, caribou, 35 other species of mammals and 169 species of birds are often visible from the park's single road in spring, summer and fall. The park's centerpiece is Mount McKinley (also called "Denali"), North America's highest peak at 20,237 feet (6,168 meters). The village of Denali has only about 160 year-round residents. Those numbers swell during the summer season when area hotels, restaurants and shops reopen with the spring thaw and start of the tourist season. Located at the top of Grande Drive, Grande Denali Lodge is one of the area's largest hotels. It's Alpenglow Restaurant and Lounge has an outdoor deck from which visitors can take in monster views facing southward toward the park entrance. As for the broader purpose of the signs, Merrill suggests it's about more than just laughs. "I guess they're also a way to take peoples' attention away from the side of the road with the cliffs," he says. "I'm pretty sure we're not done with the signs. Stay tuned to see what our warped minds come up with next." MORE: Alaska in winter: Amazing photos  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/tech/innovation/smart-football-helmet-concussions/index.html	tech	Smart football helmet may help detect concussions - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 08:03:41 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- For years, the protocol for treating possible concussions on a football field has been this: After a player takes a hard hit to the head, a coach or trainer examines him to assess the severity of the impact and his readiness to return to the field. But a visual inspection only reveals so much. What if there were data that could help detect concussions in real time? Now there are. A wave of new technology, embedded in football helmets, aims to measure the force of on-field collisions and send alerts when a player's health may be in danger. "We want to protect players as best we can," said Thad Ide, head of product development and management at Riddell, the United States' leading maker of football helmets, which has embraced these new head-impact systems. "It's a way of keeping your players healthy. You can keep your star player healthy, and keep your star player playing more," he said. "That's the way I'd look at it if I was a coach." Head injuries in football have become a hot-button issue in recent years, from youth leagues to the NFL. Thousands of former pro players -- many with dementia, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and other brain disorders -- have sued the NFL, claiming the league knew about the long-term health risks associated with head trauma. Riddell, whose helmets were worn by two-thirds of NFL players last season, was named as a defendant in many of these lawsuits. Meanwhile, more parents are voicing concerns about letting their sons play football amid a study suggesting that high school athletes are more vulnerable to concussions than older players. "Ten or 15 years ago concussions weren't thought of the same way as they are now," Ide said. "They're being taken much more seriously ... and not just shrugged off as 'being shook up' on the field." Seeing an opportunity, manufacturers are producing a growing list of products marketed as "head impact sensors," small devices that fit inside the helmet and trigger a warning when a player sustains an especially hard blow. These products have names like Shockbox, Battle Sports' Impact Indicator and Reebok's CheckLight, and they're pitched as an extra set of eyes on the playing field. Now Riddell is looking to incorporate such sensors into the helmet itself. The company's newest helmet, the SpeedFlex, is the first designed from the ground up to include a polymer-film lining that develops a charge when impact pressure is applied. The helmet's crown contains a flexible panel that compresses upon impact, reducing the force of collisions. Meanwhile, sensors inside the helmet send wireless alerts to handheld devices on the sidelines, telling coaches when a player has sustained an unusually forceful hit, or series of hits, to the head. In this way, the helmet is "an information-gathering tool," said Ide, who tests helmets at Riddell's lab in Rosemont, Illinois, outside Chicago. A Riddell spokeswoman said the SpeedFlex helmet will hit the market this summer in time for the 2014 football season. Such impact-sensing technology is not without controversy, however. Tests of head-impact sensors, conducted last year before CNN cameras, have suggested potential problems. Some helmets fitted with the sensors failed to register alerts even after being dropped from five feet or higher, an impact that could easily cause a concussion. Doctors have expressed concerns that inaccurate sensors could give players a false sense of security. "These technologies can be useful if used cautiously, as long as you don't overinterpret what they mean," Dr. Jeffrey Kutcher, director of the Michigan NeuroSport clinic, said last year. "It could be really dangerous to rely on this too much." Riddell and other manufacturers are quick to point out that their products don't diagnose concussions or any other injury. They say their devices do give coaches and trainers additional criteria that can help in determining whether a player should come out of a game. Ide believes the SpeedFlex helmet, which records every hit, will have additional safety benefits. "It could help identify players that are striking their head too often. A lot of multiple-impact alerts probably means a player is using their head more than they should, and there's probably an opportunity to coach them not to do that," he said. "And that in the end can protect them better. It can make the game safer."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/world/meast/syria-aleppo-reporters-notebook/index.html	world	Return to Aleppo: 'We are in hell' - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 04:12:19 EDT 2014	Editor's note: CNN's Nick Paton Walsh returned to the Syrian city of Aleppo recently where he saw severe devastation wrought by the ongoing civil war.  Aleppo, Syria (CNN) -- The smell of burnt plastic leaps out at you. Acrid in the throat, omnipresent, extinguishing from the air all the other smells of city life -- because really there is none. The scenes of destruction -- the fact every street is pockmarked by two years of shelling -- you have seen in activist videos online. But the smell is something striking: it notifies you that you are on the edge of humanity. Aleppo is a dusty, pale skeleton of the city I reported from 22 months ago. Since then, it has seen too much. It has seen the world lose much of its horror at its plight and instead focus on the extremists in rebel ranks who Western officials fear may eventually turn their ire on Europe. It has seen the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad seem to edge towards collapse and then pull back from the brink with Russian and Iranian support, in the face of a divided opposition and international community. But most visibly of all, Aleppo has had the life bombed out of it. You cannot open your eyes without seeing the impact of Syria's internecine rush to oblivion. Every building is marked. It is in keeping with the contempt Assad's regime has for those who disagree with him, that the largest city has born the brunt of his crudest and most indiscriminate weapon. The "barrel bomb" is itself a symptom of a war so long and exhaustive, the ways of state-backed killing have by necessity become homemade and improvised, rather than precise and militarized. It is a simple device: take a barrel and fill it with explosive and any shrapnel you can find. Then fly over Aleppo, normally in helicopters, and drop the barrel when you see a populated area. This has since been refined, activists say. The bombers now drop one device and then wait 10 to 30 minutes. Then they drop another. The aim is to ensure that those who flooded in to the scene to rescue the victims are then killed, the activists say. "You will see that when the first one lands, everyone stays in cover for 30 minutes," one activist told me. "They know now a second bomb is coming." Bustan al Quasr has borne the brunt of much of the bombing in the past weeks for a simple reason: that is where the people have moved to. Other areas were bombed previously, and those people moved to Bustan al Quasr and elsewhere, so now it is bombed. When we arrive, the locals are sifting through the remnants of last night's blast. It came at 1 a.m. -- two bombs, 10 minutes apart, killing between 6 and 7 people and injuring dozens, one man tells us. The familiarity with death means the precise number of victims isn't something people around here seek out. The bodies have been gathered, until dawn, and now locals are scavenging. This is the scene of a mass murder, but there is such a paucity of life here that blankets, pillows and other small household items are salvaged and ferried away. It isn't clear if those taking them away once owned them. The mosque nearby has been hit too, and the front again torn off another house. Men walking on the slender remainders of floors gather items from what remains of each room. The barrel bombing -- with all its random callousness -- is a tactic with a goal, it appears. The regime is moving to clear the remaining parts of Aleppo of rebels and their supporters, of all human life it seems, because human life here is opposed to them by ideology or just association. Barrel bombs are an effective way of doing that. At the same time, the regime is beginning to close a loop on the ring roads around to the north of Aleppo that would -- with the exception of one key road, still free to rebel traffic -- encircle the city entirely. Those who live there fear they will follow the same fate as the city of Homs, besieged and shelled for months and starved into submission only recently. The international aid community, worried by how real that prospect is, has been meeting urgently to prepare for that eventuality: refugees and the demand for food for the besieged. But for now, while they wait to be encircled, the killing continues. In one of the hospitals -- dark, secretive buildings, that fear attack by the regime, where antiseptic reeks from recently mopped floors -- we meet a British citizen. Syrian in origin, born in France, he has lived in London long enough to keep his accent, but he prefers not to be named. Six weeks ago, he was hit in a bomb blast, which tore the skin from his left leg. He is wincing in indescribable pain as he explains what it's like to be hit by a bomb. "First there is a plane in the sky. We duck down, and they just hit us with a bomb," he said. "I didn't feel anything. The next thing I was woken up and I could not feel my leg. Things were burning around me. They took me to a hospital and I woke up I realized I was burning. They did their best, but they could not do much. I was moving from hospital to another and the next thing I realized I had lost all the skin on my whole leg. It's unbearable. I can't sleep at night, it's unbearable." Throughout our conversation his leg, bandaged to prevent an infection that could kill him, but hidden by the green of his surgeon's tunic, bounces up and down, purely out of fear, agony or nerves. "We are in hell, just go outside, the city is flattened," he said. "There's nothing. It's every single day. Every single day, every single hour. There's no people any more. No cats, no insects. Nothing left." It is baffling how life is sustained in Aleppo. There are palpable changes in the past two years to what was once Syria's commercial, bustling, metropolitan hub. Women are now more frequently covered from head to toe in the hijab and many wear the niqab across their face. Our producer had an inch of her exposed hair tucked back into her scarf while she was talking to some women in a hospital -- the helpful female bystander was just trying to help a sister out. In one hospital, we met a young girl who had been hit by a sniper, but who refused to speak on camera because she and her mother-in-law knew her husband -- apparently a fighter -- would kill her for doing so. She was 13. This is not a war that has an adjusted, moderate society waiting to spring to life in the first throes of peace. Basic utilities are more and more scarce. A full drought hit recently when rebels cut off their own water when they tried to disrupt the regime's supplies. Now water rarely comes from the faucet. We see one woman who fills her plastic jugs from a hose in the street. Some shops appear open; we purchased a USB with remarkable speed. But most streets echo with the pain and fear of those who have left. Markets and bakeries resonate with unease at the regime's tactic of hitting anything that seems crowded. The last time I was here, you could see life in all its messy forms, occasionally interrupted and shattered by the bombing. Then it seemed to aim at something, clumsy and off-target as it was. Now that is clearly not the case. The randomness seems to give some people solace, in that there is just nothing they can do. Two children we spoke to briefly on a hospital bench said they were used to it; it is part of life, like school or a favorite T-shirt would normally be in childhood. The youngest are targets, and we met several very young children, some as young as 3, who were quiet, subdued, as though caught in that moment of tense, looming pressure when a storm moves in to break over your head. 22 months ago, we reported on the fate of Rena, a 4-year-old girl hit by a sniper who fired through the frosted glass of her apartment window, into the room she was sitting in, the bullet hitting her jaw and eventually lodging in her throat, killing her. It is unlikely the sniper who took her life knew who his target was. The shot was fired purely to terrify. This time we meet Mohammed. He is 5 and in a hospital. He too was hit by a sniper. He too was at home when the bullet struck. He was watching cartoons, his mother tells me. The bullet hit his stomach, exploding inside him, and causing exit wounds in his front and sides. The doctor pinches his chest skin roughly to check he is conscious. He is and raises an outstretched hand towards me and the doctor. His eyes are closed, a tear caught in the corner. His mother wails outside. "What is wrong with his eyes," she cries, referring to the sniper. "Could he not see this is my child? Why did he shoot him?" On the outskirts of rebel areas, there is an enormous pile of trash burning constantly, infecting the air. One activist told me the plastic is burned to power oil refineries, to make money for the various rebel groups. In fighting for life, they make life unlivable. Smoke rises endlessly above Aleppo, leaving behind those who cannot leave, who must find life in its embers. READ: Bashar al-Assad re-elected easily, state media reports READ: Militants say American carried out suicide attack CNN EXCLUSIVE: Videos show brutality of ISIS in Syria   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/02/world/meast/syria-elections-explainer/index.html	world	Syria's presidential election: How fair can a vote be in a war zone? - CNN.com	2014/06/02	Monday Jun 2 07:51:02 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Syria may be embroiled in a brutal three-year civil war, but that's not stopping the government from holding controversial presidential elections this week. The election, which has been branded a sham by the West and by the Syrian opposition, is widely expected to return President Bashar al-Assad to power. CNN International Correspondent Frederik Pleitgen has reported from inside Syria numerous times during the conflict, which has left an estimated 150,000 people dead. He breaks down the key questions ahead of Tuesday's election. Why is it happening now? The government says Syria's new constitution stipulates that presidential elections must be held now. The regime says it shows the country is moving forward and that it is the first time a president will be elected by the people rather than appointed. The opposition says the election is a fraud, that voting will be rigged and that the poll serves only to cement Assad's power. Who are the other candidates? The other two candidates are relative unknowns. One is Maher Hajjar, an entrepreneur and member of parliament. He keeps out of the limelight and has not been heard from much. Hajjar's election posters declare that "Syria is with Palestine," which seems like a very narrow slogan. Other than that it is unclear what he would change should he win. The more intriguing candidate is Hassan Nouri, a former economics professor and cabinet minister who told me he had to resign because he was too critical of Assad's government. Nouri studied at the University of Wisconsin and still refers to himself as a Badger. He says the election is an uphill battle for him, but feels he is making headway. His main message is economic. He is for market liberalization and fighting corruption in government and in the private sector. But when it comes to fighting Syria's civil war, Nouri says he wouldn't do anything differently -- and much like Assad, he refers to the regime's three-year assault on the opposition as "fighting terrorism." Are they for real?  It's very hard to tell whether Assad's opponents are for real. They certainly don't seem to stand much of a chance, but Hassan Nouri says he is fighting. We talked to many people on the streets of Damascus and Homs, and many had never heard of the other two candidates. But as far as the campaigns are concerned, both of them are very present. There are many Hajjar and Nouri election posters up in Damascus, even though there are a lot more for Bashar al Assad's re-election. Assad's campaign slogan is "unity" and he is trying to portray himself as a reluctant leader who is only running for office again because the people want him to. One of his election posters declares, "It is not your choice, the people have chosen you." It is hard to imagine that either candidate has a chance against Assad, but their campaigns certainly do not look like they are being repressed. What should we look out for? The big threat is that there could be widespread violence on election day. The opposition says the poll is a sham and that it will be a major target. Early voting at the Syrian embassy in Beirut had a massive turnout, but will that be replicated inside the country? If the turnout is high, that would indicate people in the areas where voting is possible take it seriously -- and opposition candidate Nouri says the election can't be considered valid if turnout is lower than 50 percent. Will the election be monitored? Syria's Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal al Mekdad told me there won't be any monitors from the U.S., the EU, or the OSCE, but he did say that monitors from "other countries" will be present. Mekdad said the presence of monitors would also depend on the security situations in certain parts of the country. What percentage of Syrians will be able to vote? It's almost impossible to say. Nearly 3 million Syrians have been forced to flee the country and more than 6.5 million are internally displaced. It will obviously be difficult for them to vote. Large swathes of Syria's north and northeast, as well as some places in the south, are not under government control and there will be no election in those areas. There are some who say people could leave those areas and come over to the government side to vote, but that seems pretty utopian. Voting will be possible in government-controlled areas, but it is not clear what percentage of the population actually still resides in these places. Is it dangerous to vote? It is dangerous to vote in certain places. In areas along the Syrian coast like Tartus and Latakia it will not be too dangerous because they are firmly under the control of the government. But elsewhere there will be major security concerns as voters will be weary of the threat of car bombs and shelling at polling stations within range of rebel mortars. What will change? It is not clear what, if anything, will change as a result of this election. The agreement signed in Geneva earlier this year called for an inclusive body to govern Syria through a transitional period. The Syrian opposition and the West say the transitional period means that Assad must resign -- but while the regime acknowledges that institutions must be reshuffled to accommodate the opposition to some degree, it says Assad must stay at the helm. If Assad wins the election as expected, the prospect of him stepping down as part of a deal would seem even less likely than it does now. Why would someone "elected by the people" leave his post? That would be the argument coming out of Damascus. And the fact Assad now has the upper hand militarily in most places makes it even less likely he'll step down any time soon.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/africa/dr-congo-violence/index.html	world	Dozens dead after cattle dispute in Democratic Republic of Congo - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 08:51:15 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- U.N. peacekeepers and troops from the Democratic Republic of Congo are trying to bring peace to an eastern Congo town where a cattle-rustling dispute led to the deaths of 30 people. At least 15 people were wounded in Friday's unrest, part of ongoing violence in this area of the country, the United Nations said. The United Nations called for an immediate end to fighting between the Bafuliru and Barundi/Banyamulenge communities in the province of South Kivu. Martin Kobler, the chief of the U.N. peacekeeping mission in Congo, said troops would be deployed to Mutarule to assist the Congolese army and local officials. Eastern Congo, a mineral-rich region, has been at the center of a political and ethnic conflict involving its neighbors to the east, Uganda and Rwanda, for two decades. Government troops have also battled rebel groups such as M23, which was defeated in November. The persistent violence has led to thousands of families who cannot farm and leave their homes for refugee camps, according to the United Nations. The international body also blames a lack of government spending on agriculture, education, health and infrastructure for the worsening situation. READ: Humanitarian groups: Don't let CAR devolve into genocide  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/asia/malaysia-airlines-families-fund/index.html	world	MH370 families seek $5M for investigation, 'whistle-blower' reward - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 04:59:12 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Three months to the day after a Malaysian jetliner vanished, relatives of several passengers on board launched an effort Sunday to raise $5 million for investigations and a "whistle blower" reward. Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared on March 8 with 239 people aboard. After weeks of underwater searches, the multinational effort to scour the southern Indian Ocean has turned up no signs of the plane. The underwater search was postponed in late May. Australia said it will negotiate with private companies to conduct the next phase of the search. The next stage of the underwater search is not expected to start until at least late July or August. So relatives of some passengers, along with two others, have started the Reward MH370 fundraiser. It launched on the crowdsourcing website Indiegogo. "Without a fresh approach, the truth and the plane will never be found," Sarah Bajc, partner of passenger Philip Wood, said on the campaign's website. The campaign is led by a "governance committee" that includes seven people: five are family members of passengers, and two are experienced with fundraising and private investigation, the Reward MH370 website says. " All decisions made regarding management of the campaign, selection of and coordination with private investigation resources, lead advancement and reward payment must be approved by a majority of the Governance Committee," the site says. Ethan Hunt, the Australian businessman leading the project, said while he doesn't know exactly where the plane is, "I'm certain it's not in the ocean." He said someone does know where the plane is, and the money will be an incentive for that person to come forward. "Utilizing the immense potential of the crowd, we believe we can achieve our primary goal of recovering the flight where others methods have failed," he said. How will the fund be handled?  Hunt said Monday that the money raised will go into a bank account in Hong Kong that will be set up in the next week. The account will have three signatories: Bajc, Hunt, and a third person yet to be determined. Two signatures will be needed to take the money out, Hunt said. He said a legally binding agreement twill be signed by everyone involved in the next few days. That agreement, Hunt said, states that no individual committee member of the campaign may profit from the venture. What about the private investigation?  Any tips will be vetted by a "certified private investigation company," but the company has not been hired yet, Hunt said. He said he has faced an extortion attempt on a previous crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo -- that time for a business venture. Hunt said he is prepared for outside criticism from his own government or even from the families of other passengers on board MH370. But he asked his skeptics to consider the chance that the effort could help find the missing aircraft. K.S. Narendran, husband of passenger Chandrika Sharma, said he has been mulling the campaign for several weeks. "The point is this: Something like this is a good step to take," Narendran said. "The move and intentions are honorable and everybody, as far as I am concerned, is committed to making sure that this is well-managed." What's the latest on the official search? A team of search officials will head to Canberra, Australia, on Tuesday to finalize the terms of Malaysian participation in the next phase of the hunt for MH370, Malaysia's deputy minister of communications said. Authorities believe the plane, en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, veered off course and crashed in the Indian Ocean west of Australia. Officials are soliciting private companies for the use of high-tech underwater equipment in the next stage of the search. Malaysian Deputy Defense Minister said the price is not known, but the cost "will be shared 50/50 -- 50% by Malaysia, and 50% by Australia." When asked about private crowdsourcing effort to find the plane, Malaysia's civil aviation director said he had no problems with the campaign. "We leave it to them. I think if they want to engage ... and they want to employ investigators ... I think they can do so," Azharuddin Abdul Rahman said. "Then hopefully they can share their outcome of their investigation with us. Then we can discuss together." Airlines want tracking technology to prevent another MH370 CNN's Faith Karimi, Anjali Tsui and Christine Theodorou contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/europe/turkey-kurds-clashes/index.html	world	At least 2 die in Turkey-Kurd clashes - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 08:32:40 EDT 2014	Istanbul (CNN) -- Crowds of mourners gathered Sunday to bury a young man in the southeastern Turkish city of Diyarbakir after clashes the previous day between Kurdish protesters and Turkish security forces turned deadly. A member of parliament from a pro-Kurdish political party told CNN at least two people were shot dead in Saturday's clashes, with at least two more in critical condition. The violence unsettled a peace process between the Turkish government and Kurdish rebels, who have been waging a guerrilla war in the predominantly Kurdish southeast for 30 years. The Diyarbakir governor's office put the blame for the unrest squarely on what it described as "attackers," according to a statement released online Saturday. "As a result of an armed attack on security forces ensuring security on the Diyarbakir-Bingol road, two attackers were injured. One attacker was airlifted to Dicle University by military helicopter but lost his life despite all efforts," the governor's office said. But Sebahat Tuncel, a parliament member from the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party, blamed the deaths on the Turkish government. Tuncel told CNN that locals had been demonstrating for more than two weeks against the construction of new outposts for Turkish security forces near Lice. "A week ago I was there and what the people there were telling me is 'We don't believe they (the government) are earnest about the peace process. People who are honest about the peace process would not be building more outposts,' " said Tuncel, speaking by phone from the funeral of Ramazan Baran. Baran, 24, died in Saturday's clashes. For more than a year, the government of Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been in negotiations with Abdullah Ocalan, the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK. The Turkish state, as well as the United States and the European Union, have long designated the PKK a terrorist organization. The negotiations brought a relative lull to violence that has claimed the lives of more than 30,000 people in southeastern Turkey over the last three decades. The Kurds are Turkey's largest ethnic minority. They were long the target of discriminatory policies, which banned the use of the Kurdish language and even Kurdish names. Since his party was first elected to power in 2002, Erdogan has implemented a number of reforms, including creating a Kurdish-language state TV channel, removing the ban on the Kurdish letters "q," "x" and "w," and allowing Kurdish-language education in some private schools. READ: Turkish cops harass CNN reporter on air  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/world/asia/china-naked-officials/index.html	world	China crackdown on 1,000 'naked officials' - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 02:43:50 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In the latest move in China's anti-corruption campaign, more than 1,000 people in Guangdong Province have been marked as "naked officials" -- those suspected of storing graft gains with overseas family members. According to Chinese state media, Xinhua news agency, an unnamed official source says 866 of the implicated officials have been removed from their posts, including nine at a mayoral level. Another 200 have asked their families to return to China, in exchange for keeping their posts. Many officials have family overseas, including President Xi Jinping, whose daughter is currently enrolled at Harvard University. "Naked officials" refers to civil servants who have sent their families overseas allegedly with their ill-gotten assets. Moving money and family abroad is often seen as a precursor to officials' own flight. A report by the Ministry of Commerce cited in the English-language China Daily showed 4,000 corrupt officials had fled the country with at least $50 billion between 1978 and 2003. The names of the implicated Guangdong officials were not released, but Xinhua reported that 127 of the demoted officials are from Dongguan, a manufacturing hub dubbed "sin city" for its thriving prostitution trade. The southern Chinese city was also the target of a government vice crackdown in February. READ: Hong Kong police on alert after China sex industry crackdown Another 128 officials were demoted in the city of Jiangmen. One of the first to lose their position from the crackdown is Fang Xuan, the deputy chief of the Guangzhou Party Committee. This month, Fang applied for retirement five months earlier than planned after being "found as a naked official," Xinhua also reported. China's netizens have largely been skeptical of the top-down anti-graft move. Many commented that the latest crackdown is inadequate for stamping out corruption. "The anti-corruption drive is basically using guerrilla warfare tactics, shooting in one place then moving on to another. It agitates the chickens and the dogs, but the tigers just relocate their dens," wrote Weibo user "Qin Qianhong." Since last year, Chinese President Xi Jinping has vowed to clean up the tarnished image of the Communist Party, pushing anti-graft campaigns and pledging to target "mosquitoes" -- minor officials -- as well as "tigers" -- top officials. Critics say the war on corruption is just Xi's excuse for removing political opponents. Earlier this year, a report by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists found that relatives of current and former top Chinese leadership are shareholders in offshore companies, allegedly storing away billions of illicit graft gains. The report included details of assets of two of former Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao's children.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/africa/egypt-presidential-election/index.html	world	Egypt: Abdel Fattah el-Sisi sworn in as President - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 01:12:44 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Egypt's former military chief Abdel Fattah el-Sisi was sworn in Sunday as President, vowing to lead the country through important changes. In its next phase, Egypt "will witness a total rise on both internal and external fronts, to compensate what we have missed and correct the mistakes of the past," he said. Despite the political upheaval Egypt has faced in recent years, el-Sisi celebrated the transition from interim President Adly Mansour. "In the long history that goes back thousands of years, our homeland did not witness democratic transfer of power. Now, for the first time, the President-elect shakes hands with the outgoing President, and together they sign a power transfer document in an unprecedented occasion," he said in an address in front of the Supreme Constitutional Court's General Assembly in Cairo. El-Sisi won 96% of the vote in last month's presidential election for a four-year term. When he was declared the winner last week, a boisterous celebration erupted in Cairo's Tahrir Square, filled with fireworks and balloons bearing his image. Military and security personnel watched from the edges as crowds danced and sang. Washington is looking forward to working with el-Sisi "to advance our strategic partnership and the many interests shared by the United States and Egypt," the White House press secretary said last week.  The election was called amid political turbulence that saw Mohamed Morsy -- the country's first democratically elected President after the ouster of longtime leader Hosni Mubarak -- removed from power in a July military coup. El-Sisi, who was army chief at the time, stepped down from his military post this year to run for President. The White House said while it is pleased that international observers were allowed to participate in the election, "we also share concerns raised by observation groups about the restrictive political environment in which this election took place." "As Egypt looks toward parliamentary elections later this year, we urge the government to consider the recommendations of the observer groups on ways to improve the administration of future elections," the White House said. El-Sisi's sole opponent, Hamdeen Sabahy, received 3.9% of the vote, the country's election commission said. Sabahy conceded defeat but raised questions about the political process. Allegations were made that Sabahy campaign representatives were attacked and detained, and that el-Sisi's representatives were allowed inside polling stations, Egypt's state-run Ahram Online news agency has reported. "We cannot give any credibility or ratification to the announced numbers of turnout or results," Sabahy said last month. "The announced results are an insult to the intelligence of the Egyptians." READ: Investors welcome el-Sisi as Egypt's new president takes office READ: 10 Muslim Brotherhood supporters sentenced to death in Egypt READ: Can Egypt's presidential candidates transform economic fortunes?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/07/world/europe/us-navy-rescue-mediterranean/index.html	world	U.S. Navy rescues 282 apparent migrants in Mediterranean - CNN.com	2014/06/07	Saturday Jun 7 03:02:14 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The U.S. Navy rescued 282 people from six small vessels in the Mediterranean Sea after one of the boats began to sink, the military said Saturday. Five of the rescued were medically evacuated Friday to nearby Malta, and the remaining 277 people were transferred to an offshore patrol vessel belonging to Malta's military, the U.S. Navy said. The amphibious assault ship USS Bataan and the frigate USS Elrod received a call Friday from an Italian military marine patrol aircraft, which spotted the sinking boat and five others, the Navy said. The Bataan launched two helicopters, which found a sinking boat and deployed swimmers to extract people from the water, the Navy said. The Elrod sent two of its own smaller watercraft to assist. The 282 people were brought aboard the Bataan, and the Navy posted a YouTube video of the rescued people -- apparent African migrants -- looking tired or grateful as they stepped aboard the warship. The Bataan provided them with food, water, medicine and sleeping blankets, according to the video. The U.S. military didn't immediately provide further details of the rescued or their destination. But southern Italy is a frequent gateway for African refugees seeking to enter European Union countries. Men, women and children often overcrowd unseaworthy or badly equipped boats to make the journey, which sometimes result in deadly shipwrecks. The deaths of more than 300 African migrants in a shipwreck off Lampedusa last October shocked Italy and the world, and led to calls for EU lawmakers to review their migration policies. Each year, tens of thousands of people are rescued from the Mediterranean, according to the European Union border agency, Frontex. The United Nations has expressed dismay over the rising number of migrants dying at sea. 17 killed in sinking of migrants' ship off Italy At least 40 dead after boat sinks off Tripoli Migrants die as two boats capsize off Greek island  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/07/us/triple-crown-horse-racing/index.html	us	Tonalist wins Belmont Stakes - CNN.com	2014/06/07	Saturday Jun 7 05:14:39 EDT 2014	New York (CNN) -- Tonalist won the 146th Belmont Stakes Saturday, denying the heavily favored California Chrome his chance to become the first Triple Crown winner in 36 years. Instead of a historic win by their favorite, the huge crowd at Belmont Park in Elmont, New York, witnessed a dramatic finish in which Tonalist, ridden by Joel Rosario, overtook Commissioner in his last strides to win by a head. But the fact that none of the top three finishers had raced in both the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes, the two prerequisites to the Triple Crown, didn't sit well with California Chrome co-owner Steve Coburn. Coburn angrily told NBC Sports that the horse owners that had skipped either race before running the Belmont took "the coward's way out." Neither Tonalist nor Commissioner ran in the Derby or Preakness. Medal Count, the third-place finisher, didn't run in the Preakness. California Chrome appeared sluggish and finished in a dead heat for fourth with Wicked Strong in his bid to become the first Triple Crown winner since Affirmed in 1978. In the 135 years the grueling series of races for 3-year-old thoroughbreds have all been contested, only 11 horses have won all three. A visibly upset Coburn said his horse "didn't have it in him." "I'll never see, and I'm 61 years old, another Triple Crown winner in my lifetime because of the way they do this," he said. "It's not fair to these horses that have been in the game since Day One. If you don't make enough points to get into the Kentucky Derby, you [shouldn't] run in the other two races. ... It's all or nothing because this is not fair to these horses that have been running their guts out for these people and for the people who believe in them. This is a coward's way out, in my opinion." Tonalist owner Robert Evans declined to comment on Coburn's remarks. Tonalist covered the mile and a half in 2:28.52 and returned $20.40 to win on a $2 bet.   California Chrome's jockey Victor Espinoza described his horse moments after the race as "a little tired." "Turning for home I was just waiting to have the same kick like he always had before, and today he was a little bit flat down the lane," Espinoza said. "I think it was tough for him. He ran back-to-back races in different tracks -- and all those fresh horses." Rosario called his victory bittersweet. "I'm a little bit upset about California Chrome," he told NBC Sports. "If I was going to get beat, I wanted to just get beat by him." Belmont Park has been especially unkind to Triple Crown contenders in recent years. Big Brown, a prohibitive favorite in 2008, failed to finish the Belmont, and in 2012 I'll Have Another failed to start, scratched due to an injury. The daunting Triple Crown challenge squeezes three races into a five-week period, in an era when thoroughbreds normally run no more than once a month. Adding to the rigor is the course itself: Belmont is a quarter-mile longer than Churchill Downs, home of the Derby, and five-sixteenths longer than Pimlico Race Course, where the Preakness is run. California Chrome started in the second post position -- the same gate that Secretariat shot out from in 1973 on track to Triple Crown glory and racing immortality. Tonalist was among the horses considered to be California Chrome's biggest threats, along with Ride on Curlin and Commanding Curve. The Belmont Stakes prize is about $800,000 to the winner, but in the view of some in the thoroughbred racing community, there was much, much more riding on the outcome. The beleaguered racing industry, battered for decades by gambling competition and changing entertainment tastes, stood to benefit from a Triple Crown. "If California Chrome wins," Christopher Kay, CEO of the New York Racing Association, said prior to the race, "I think it will bring a whole new generation of fans to this great sport." It wasn't to be. The people who know the horse: California Chrome's biggest fans California Chrome's jockey ready for another shot at Triple Crown Matt Majendie and CNN's Richard Roth and Laura Dolan contributed to this report.    
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/us/texas-gop-gay-therapy/index.html	us	Texas Republicans favor 'reparative therapy' platform for gays - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 04:24:17 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Texas Republicans have adopted a party platform that includes support for voluntary psychological "therapy" targeted at converting homosexuals to heterosexuals. Almost 10,000 attendees gathered in Fort Worth at the annual Texas GOP Convention to vote on a platform ahead of the 2016 race for the White House. Supporters of "conversion" or "reparative" therapy believe the treatment is effective in turning gays straight. California and New Jersey have banned the treatment for minors. The Texas Republicans' measure states that "We recognize the legitimacy and efficacy of counseling, which offers reparative therapy and treatment for those patients seeking healing and wholeness from their homosexual lifestyle. No laws or executive orders shall be imposed to limit or restrict access to this type of therapy." Spearheading the endorsement is Cathie Adams, president of the conservative Texas Eagle Forum. She stressed that the measure calls for allowing people to choose the treatment. "Nothing is mandatory," Adams wrote in an e-mail to CNN on Saturday. "If a person chooses counseling, then it should be made available. California and New Jersey have passed bills OUTLAWING it altogether, which is under litigation. It's a freedom issue." But an array of professional organizations oppose gay conversion therapy. Such groups include the American Medical Association, the American Psychiatric Association and the American Psychological Association. "The most important fact about these 'therapies' is that they are based on a view of homosexuality that has been rejected by all the major mental health professions," said the APA, the nation's largest scientific and professional organization representing psychology. "To date, there has been no scientifically adequate research to show that therapy aimed at changing sexual orientation ... is safe or effective." Adams told CNN in a phone interview she was introduced to reparative treatment by a constituent in her precinct who claimed he was a gay man who is now straight because of such treatment. "I do not think homosexuals are born as homosexuals," Adams said. "To say this is an unchangeable thing, there are too many people who've changed their mind about homosexuality. No one can change the color of their skin or change the place they're born, but they can definitely choose their lifestyles," she added. Last August, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie signed into law a measure banning gay conversion therapy for minors. "The American Psychological Association has found that efforts to change sexual orientations can pose critical health risks including, but not limited to, depression, substance abuse, social withdrawal, decreased self-esteem and suicidal thoughts," the Republican governor said in his signing statement. "I believe that exposing children to these health risks without clear evidence of benefits that outweigh these serious risks is not appropriate." CNN's Holly Yan contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/us/questions-sgt-bowe-bergdahl-controversy/index.html	us	Celebrated at first, Bergdahl's release raises more questions - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 05:08:11 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl's release from Taliban captivity was largely celebrated at first. In the ensuing days, however, several serious issues about death, honor and the law have arisen, and those issues continue to grow. Is Bergdahl in military trouble? Any legal issues about Bergdahl, who's been accused of desertion, will be addressed once he has returned to U.S. soil. He's now being treated at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany. A senior U.S. defense official said this week that Bergdahl has not been classified a deserter and is still scheduled to be promoted to the rank of staff sergeant later this month. "We have not classified him as a deserter. At this point we do not have any understanding of why he left his camp that night" in June 2009, the official said. Military officials need to hear Bergdahl's explanation of those events, the official said. He noted that the Army promoted Bergdahl in rank during his captivity. One expert, Geoffrey Corn, a professor at South Texas College of Law, said the accusations raise "some very serious violations of the uniform code of military justice and arguably violations that led to the loss of life of members of his own unit in their efforts to recover him." "There's going to be a very deliberate and careful effort to develop the facts, although that also raises complicating issues related to whether or not he is entitled to a Miranda-type warning under the military code, which might lead him to say he doesn't want to talk about it at all," Corn said. Corn spent 22 years in the Army as an officer and civilian employee, with his last post as the Army's senior law of war expert in the office of the judge advocate general. Were U.S. soldiers killed searching for Bergdahl? There is controversy over whether soldiers were killed, directly or indirectly, in the search for Bergdahl after he was taken captive by the Taliban. Former soldiers involved in the operations to find Bergdahl asserted to CNN this week that at least six soldiers were killed in the search for Bergdahl in 2009. They provided the soldiers' names and their dates of death, with circumstances for some of them. A day later, Nathan Bradley Bethea, a former member of Bergdahl's battalion who searched for him that summer in 2009, wrote in the Daily Beast that eight soldiers' deaths were tied to the Bergdahl search. Bethea provided the eight soldiers' names -- including six names that CNN earlier reported. Pentagon and Army officials have looked at the claims, and "right now there is no evidence to back that up," a U.S. official told CNN on Thursday. Asked about the accusations, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told reporters Wednesday that he did not know of specific circumstances or details of soldiers dying as a result of the efforts to find Bergdahl. Bergdahl's former team leader, former Sgt. Evan Buetow, told CNN, "I can't say for a fact and I don't know if there is really anyone who can prove that soldiers died on a directed mission to find Bergdahl. However every mission, especially in the following two or more months, those were directed missions. Everything after that, they were still missions that were in search of Bergdahl. ... Bergdahl leaving changed the mission." Bowe Bergdahl: Strong, well-rounded and easy to talk to, friends say Did Bergdahl desert? An Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after his disappearance concluded that Bergdahl left his outpost deliberately and of his own free will, according to a U.S. military official briefed on the report. The official spoke to CNN Tuesday on the condition of anonymity due to the sensitive nature of the information. There was no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials couldn't learn without talking to the soldier. The investigation included interviews with members of Bergdahl's unit, none of whom reported seeing him go, the official said. It is "unfair" to Bergdahl and his family to presume anything about his motivations for leaving the base, Hagel said Wednesday. Secretary of the Army John McHugh said Tuesday that "a comprehensive, coordinated" review of Bergdahl's case will be conducted. The review "will include speaking with Sergeant Bergdahl to better learn from him the circumstances regarding his disappearance and captivity," McHugh said. Earlier in the week, Hagel declined to address directly detailed questions about Bergdahl's case -- particularly accusations that he deserted, as some of his former brothers-in-arms allege. Before he went missing, Bergdahl spoke of wanting to get lost in the mountains and walking to India, his comrades said. "I believe he totally deserted," said former Staff Sgt. Justin Gerleve, Bergdahl's former squad leader. Opinion: Five tough ethics issues in Bergdahl swap Did Obama break the law? Bergdahl's captors freed him in exchange for the release of five Taliban fighters held at the U.S. prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but the Obama administration didn't tell Congress of the releases. Under law, the White House has to give a 30-day notice to Capitol Hill before any terrorists are transferred from Guantanamo. White House National Security Adviser Susan Rice defended President Obama's decision not to notify Congress. "Given the acute urgency of the health condition of Sergeant Bergdahl, and given the President's constitutional responsibilities, it was determined that it was necessary and appropriate not to adhere to the 30-day notification requirement, because it would have potentially meant that the opportunity to get Sergeant Bergdahl would have been lost," Rice said. The president did indeed break the letter of the law, said Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington University. But there are questions about the law itself, he added. "There's two different questions here. One is, did he violate the federal law? The answer to that is most obviously yes," Turley said. "The second question is whether that law is constitutional. And the answer to that is more difficult. "This is just a notice requirement. There are thousands of such notice requirements. And the problem with the President's argument is there's no limiting principle, that he could argue that all national security laws could fall into the same unilateral power," Turley said. Hillary Clinton wanted tougher deal for Bergdahl Did Bergdahl help the Taliban? There's no evidence that Bergdahl helped the enemy directly, though he's certainly been used in Taliban propaganda. What has partly fueled this accusation is how Bergdahl reportedly had sent e-mails to his parents denouncing U.S. activities in Afghanistan, according to a 2012 story in Rolling Stone magazine. Bergdahl's former comrades also wondered if he gave the Taliban intelligence because the enemy executed "very calculated, very methodical" strikes after Bergdahl's disappearance, said Buetow. But a U.S. official who has been briefed on the initial Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after Bergdahl disappeared told CNN that Bergdahl's commanders referred to him as "a good soldier" in that report. Some of his teammates said he had expressed "boredom" and thought his unit was too passive and should have been "kicking down doors," the official said. Taliban video shows Bowe Bergdahl's release in Afghanistan Was Bergdahl tortured? It's too early to say how severely Bergdahl was mistreated during his five years of captivity. Officials have yet to state the findings of their medical examination of Bergdahl following his release Saturday. A Taliban propaganda video of the handover of Bergdahl showed him looking gaunt and blinking repeatedly -- as if in disbelief or shock. "He doesn't look that bad to me," remarked Chris Voss, a former FBI lead international hostage negotiator, about Bergdahl's condition. Some experts speculate Bergdahl may have experienced Stockholm syndrome, in which he may have emotionally bonded with his Taliban captors over the five years. Why is his unit coming out against him? There's something new and something old motivating the former members of Bergdahl's unit to condemn him. First there were the immediate reports that Bergdahl was being hailed as a hero. Those accounts incensed the former soldiers. The comrades also remembered 2009 and how they searched for Bergdahl. "He walked off," said former Pfc. Jose Baggett, 27, of Chicago. "He left his guard post. Nobody knows if he defected or he's a traitor or he was kidnapped. What I do know is, he was there to protect us, and instead he decided to defer from America and go and do his own thing. I don't know why he decided to do that, but we spent so much of our resources, and some of those resources were soldiers' lives." In fact, the former soldiers say they are so outraged that they are speaking out publicly at significant peril. The former servicemen said they earlier signed nondisclosure agreements about the disappearance and search for Bergdahl, but they're now violating it. The six soldiers at center of Bergdahl debate Is that illegal? The former soldiers may well be in open violation of that contract. But they say they will risk punishment. "It's certainly a possibility, but I don't think that I could have continued to go on without being able to share with you and the people the true things that happened in this situation, because if you guys aren't made aware of it, it will just go on, he will be a hero, and nobody is going to be able to know the truth," said former Army Sgt. Josh Korder, whose back is tattooed with the names of three soldiers who purportedly died while searching for Bergdahl. Army officials didn't immediately return a CNN request for comment about what consequences, if any, the former soldiers may face if they're in violation of a nondisclosure agreement. For those former troops, honor is at stake. "For me, he's a deserter. America needs to know," said Gerleve, the former squad leader. "He's back, and he needs to be held accountable." Was Bergdahl swap legal? Depends on who you ask Official: Army will review freed soldier Bergdahl's case but it's not first priority Bergdahl hurts Obama's most promising chance to close Gitmo CNN's Barbara Starr and Jake Tapper contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/05/politics/guantanamo-bay-close/index.html	politics	Bergdahl case highlights drive to close Gitmo - CNN.com	2014/06/05	Thursday Jun 5 08:58:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Amid the firestorm over the decision to release five Guantanamo Bay detainees in exchange for captured American soldier Bowe Bergdahl, the Obama administration is continuing its efforts to close the controversial prison in Cuba. Recent efforts to do so are focusing on the establishment of a Periodic Review Board to intermittently decide whether detainees not currently facing charges can be transferred to their home country or to a third-party country willing to take them. According to a senior administration official who briefed reporters on Thursday, the board ensures that detainees are "regularly getting a fresh look," and getting the chance to have someone hear their case. U.S. law currently does not allow Guantanamo detainees to be moved to the United States, a provision that has impeded the administration's efforts to close the prison, since detainees cannot be tried in civilian courts or moved to American prisons. The Periodic Review Board was created by Executive Order in March of 2011, and was launched in October of last year. So far, the board has conducted seven reviews, and three detainees have been approved by it for transfer. The board is made up of representatives from the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Justice, and State, as well as the Joint Staff and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. They review detainees' histories to determine whether they are likely to represent a continued threat to the United States. But the decision to approve a detainee for transfer does not lead to their immediate release. In fact, of the 149 detainees at the prison, 78 have already been approved for transfer but are still awaiting repatriation. Most have been in this limbo for more than four years. That's because the United States must first work out a deal with a foreign country willing to take them, and the deal must satisfy certain security and humane treatment obligations, according to the official. Once a deal has been reached, justification for the release must be submitted to members of congress for a mandatory 30-day review period. The Obama administration decided to bypass this stage of the process in the Bergdahl case, which has led critics to accuse the administration of violating the law. The administration insists it had an obligation to do so because intelligence suggested the Bergdahl was in ill health, and might not survive the 30 days. Moreover, a Senate aide took that further, telling CNN on condition of not being identified that senators were told by the administration that the United States had credible information that leaked word of the deal ahead of time would result in Bergdahl being killed. Even with approval from government officials and the support of Congress, it can be difficult for the U.S. to find foreign governments willing to take the detainees or able to provide the appropriate assurances. The Obama administration also has a blanket ban on the transfer of all detainees to Yemen. And critics have levied a wave of concerns over recidivism. A September 2013 report from the Director of National Intelligence found that 16.6% of the approximately 600 released detainees were confirmed to have returned to the battlefield, and another 12.3% were suspected of having done so. Still, the administration says it is determined to reduce the Guantanamo Bay prison population, and points to data showing recidivism rates have been on the decline under Obama. "We are very pleased with the progress we have been making," the senior administration official said, adding that the government was appreciative of efforts by foreign governments to accommodate detainees. The official also cited cost as a big motivator, saying, "It simply does not make sense at this point in our history to be spending this type of money" on the prison. Citing efforts by the Bush administration to reduce the detainee population, the official suggested there is room for bipartisan cooperation on transfers. More than 500 detainees were released under former President George W. Bush. According to the official, 71 of the Guantanamo's remaining detainees have not been approved for transfer. Of those, 10 are facing trial in front of the military commission system and are therefore ineligible to face the Periodic Review Board. Twenty-three have been referred for prosecution and the remaining 38 remain under detention with no decision made on their status. The prison was opened in January of 2002 and has housed over 750 detainees since.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/justice/wisconsin-stabbing-family-statement/index.html	crime	Stabbed Wisconsin girl's family grateful for support - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 06:13:34 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- A 12-year-old Wisconsin girl who police say was stabbed 19 times by two other girls is "a strong, brave girl" whose verve and sparkle "will be back again brighter than ever because of the amazing support she has worldwide," her family said in a statement Friday. "We ... are overwhelmed by the outpouring of love from the surrounding community, across the country, and even overseas," the family said in the statement that was posted at the site where their daughter was found. "Our strong, brave girl loves school and her teachers. She is looking forward to the summer, but has voiced that she will miss attending her classes even more." Authorities said one girl held the victim down while another stabbed her in a Waukesha park Saturday morning, allegedly so that the attackers could impress a fictitious, ghoulish Internet character called Slenderman. A bicyclist found the wounded girl alive. She has since been released from a hospital, her parents said in a statement Friday. The girls allegedly left the victim to crawl to her own rescue. The three girls were friends. "Her favorite class, even at the young age of 12, is French," the victim's family said. "She practices it at home and teases her little brother by saying words he cannot understand. She has a very close knit family with grandparents, aunts, uncles, and cousins who are very active in her life." An animal lover whose two cats are "her pride and joy," the victim planned to spend much of the summer volunteering at the Waukesha County Humane Society, the statement said. "This past fall she organized a food drive to benefit the animals at the shelter," the statement said. "She enjoys listening to music and torments her parents, just as any other pre-teen, with loud acoustical versions of her favorite Taylor Swift and Katy Perry songs." "She is a budding fashionista and enjoys reading magazines about the latest styles," the family statement said. "She has a love for life and the dramatic sparkle of any typical 12 year old girl in her eye. Although the sparkle has dimmed for now, we know that it will be back again brighter than ever because of the amazing support she has worldwide." Who is Slenderman? The suspects, Morgan Geyser and Anissa Weier, were arrested hours after the victim was discovered, according to a criminal complaint. They have been charged with attempted first-degree intentional homicide, according to court documents filed Monday. The two, both 12, are being charged as adults, and bail is set at $500,000 for each, Waukesha County District Attorney Brad Schimel said. Her alleged attackers were trying to impress a certain "Slenderman," according to a criminal complaint. One of the girls encountered the name on a website known as Creepypasta Wiki. Slenderman is a fictional character and Internet meme that often appears in horror stories, videos and images. One of the suspects told police that Slenderman is the site's supposed leader, and to climb into his realm, a user must kill someone. When can kids understand reality vs. fantasy? Bicyclist who found stabbed Wisconsin girl: 'Who did that to you?' Opinion: When the bogeyman is a little girl CNN's Christie Bear contributed to this report.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/tech/innovation/pepper-robot-emotions/index.html	tech	Meet Pepper, the emotional robot - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 05:10:53 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When someone is being stiff and acting emotionless, we may have to quit calling them a robot. Softbank, a Japanese Internet and telecommunications company, introduced the world Thursday to Pepper, a robot designed to read, and respond to, its user's mood. "People may look back 100 years later, or 200 years later (and say) that was a historic moment we are having today," said Masayoshi Son, Softbank's CEO, in a translated video on Softbank's website. Pepper stands about 4 feet tall and weighs just 62 pounds. At the event in Tokyo, the little humanoid offered a traditional Japanese bow to the crowd before chatting with Son, shaking hands and urging him to smile. Pepper gets feedback from its user via facial-recognition technology and a bank of cameras, audio recorders and sensors in its head. Softbank says that instead of being programmed, Pepper learns how to behave over time. Feedback is uploaded to cloud storage where it can be used by other units to modify the way they behave. The robots will tailor their interactions with users based on what mood they perceive. "He tries to make you happy," Kaname Hayashi, Softbank's project manager, told CNN. Pepper has fully articulated arms and hands but no legs, rolling on a base that looks something like the bottom of a sleek, white vacuum cleaner. There's a tablet-like display mounted on the robot's chest for communicating. It's programmed to speak 17 languages. Softbank's Son, who also is chairman of Sprint Mobile, said the company envisions a future when household robots are commonplace and used for tasks ranging from simple companionship to tending to the sick and elderly. Pepper was built in a collaboration between Softbank and Aldebaran Robotics, makers of other humanoid robots like Nao and Romeo. Pepper will sell for the equivalent of just under $2,000 -- a number that some analysts said was surprisingly low. Units are on display at two Softbank stores in Japan now and are expected to go on sale there early next year. There's no word yet when, or if, Pepper will ever be available for sale outside of Japan.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/health/saturated-fat-debate/index.html	health	Saturated fat under debate after 'The Big Fat Surprise' - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 05:49:51 EDT 2014	For more from Nina Teicholz, watch "Sanjay Gupta | MD," Saturday at 4:30 PM ET and Sunday at 7:30 AM ET. (CNN) -- "To eat, or not to eat?" For many people these days, that really is the question. For the past four decades, we've been told to stay away from red meat, dairy and cheese -- foods high in saturated fats -- because saturated fat is bad for the heart. But investigative reporter Nina Teicholz says that isn't the case. "When the dietary recommendations came out in 1961 saying that saturated fat causes heart disease, that was based on total cholesterol," Teicholz said. "But our understanding of heart disease has evolved enormously." She said the science condemning saturated fats just isn't there. In her new book, "The Big Fat Surprise," Teicholz writes that the low-fat, fruit- and vegetable-filled diet that you thought was healthy doesn't have all the benefits it claims. Dr. Walter Willett, chairman of the department of nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health, cautions readers to take her findings with a grain of -- well, not salt. Your risk for heart disease depends on HDL and LDL cholesterol: good and bad cholesterol. And scientists know, he said, that saturated fat raises unhealthy LDL levels in the blood. Put down that doughnut: FDA takes on trans fat Willet said the science is there to show saturated fats are not healthy. Sure, if you compare saturated fats to everything else in a person's diet, they may not look very damaging, especially compared to say, sugar. But the idea that saturated fats are not all that bad is "only sort of a half a truth," Willet said. The keys to heart disease "Saturated fat has been the dietary culprit of the past 50, 60 years, " said Teicholz. "It really goes back to the 1950s when America was in the throes of the heart disease epidemic, which had risen out of nowhere to become the nation's No. 1 killer. President Eisenhower himself had a heart attack in 1955." It was at this time that Dr. Ancel Keys, a scientist at the University of Minnesota, embarked on the landmark "Seven Countries" study that examined the correlation between cholesterol and heart disease in nearly 13,000 men. What Keys found would become the basis for the nutritional guidelines that we have today: that countries with diets high in saturated fats had higher rates of heart disease. "There were other ideas at the time, but Ancel Keys got that idea and planted it into the American Heart Association... and it's like, the rest is really history from there," Teicholz said. "It had never been tested." But as Tiecholz and other critics point out, Keys cherry-picked the seven countries he visited: the United States, the Netherlands, Finland, Yugoslavia, Italy, Greece and Japan. Noticeably absent? Countries well known for their rich fatty foods but without high rates of heart disease, like Switzerland, Sweden and West Germany. Based on his study, Keys promoted the Mediterranean diet: a diet high in fruits and vegetables, along with bread, pasta, olive oil, fish and dairy. But Teicholz pointed out that Keys visited Greece during Lent, a time when people abstain from eating meat, which in turn skewed his data. Study questions fatty acids' heart benefits In reality, she said, the data to support the low-fat diet just isn't there. Take the 30-year follow-up to the landmark Framingham Heart Study, for example. It is one of the largest epidemiological studies evaluating the roots of heart disease in our country. In the follow-up, scientists found that half the people who had heart attacks had below-average cholesterol levels. In fact, scientists concluded that "for each 1% mg/dL drop of cholesterol, there was an 11% increase in coronary and total mortality." "Cholesterol matters, but not in the way we think it does," said Teicholz. "Our understanding of cholesterol now is very different than it was when we condemned saturated fat." Substitutes matter Willett pointed out that studies have found that replacing saturated fats with healthy fats improves blood lipids, and in turn reduces heart disease. "What matters is what you replace it with," he said. Too frequently people substitute fats with sugars, often in the form of carbohydrates, Teicholz said. Instead of eating steak for dinner, they have a plate of pasta. "We've decreased the amount of fat we eat and shifted over," Teicholz said. "In the last 30 years we've decreased our saturated fat consumption by 11%, increased carbohydrates by 25%." And sugar, some scientists believe, is the main reason for obesity in America, causing everything from hypertension to diabetes. Dr. Dean Ornish, founder of the Preventive Medicine Research Institute, helped President Bill Clinton get in shape by switching him over to a vegan diet. Ornish said the answer to reducing heart disease isn't more meat. "If you eat a diet that is high in animal protein, your risk of dying from everything goes up considerably. If you eat a plant-based diet, which is naturally low in fats and refined carbs, a whole foods, plant-based diet," the disease risk decreases, Ornish said. Perhaps the issue is that our health is a bit more complicated than choosing between a piece of meat or plate of pasta. As Willet explained, "It's like an orchestra -- you have to have all the pieces there and have to have it in the right balance. Not one factor is going to solve your health issues." Real or fake sugar: Does it matter?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/watterson-pastis-calvin-hobbes-pearls-before-swine/index.html	entertainment	How 'Calvin and Hobbes' met 'Pearls Before Swine' - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 11:52:48 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Rat, meet Spaceman Spiff. It's not a collaboration Stephan Pastis imagined in his wildest imagination. And, as any reader of Pastis' comic strip "Pearls Before Swine" knows, Pastis has a pretty wild imagination. But there was the proof, in black and white (and, in many newspapers and online, full color): "Pearls' " Rat and Pig sharing panels with the work of "Calvin and Hobbes" legend Bill Watterson, creator of the mischievous boy, his stuffed tiger and countless space- and time-defying alter egos. "Calvin and Hobbes" creator returns for a comics cameo For Pastis, a huge "Calvin and Hobbes" fan, the partnership was never less than intimidating. "Just working with him, I was so scared at all points," he told CNN in a phone interview. "What if he thought, 'He's not as funny as I thought he was?' At every point, I thought he would go away, and what proof I would have that this ever happened?" For Pastis, who usually works several months in advance, the strips came together remarkably quickly. He and Watterson first got in touch April 11, the day Pastis had a strip that falsely portrayed him as the author of "Calvin and Hobbes" in order to get a woman in bed. Some time earlier, he had been told by a mutual friend, Washington Post cartoonist Nick Galifianakis, that Watterson had been wanting to get in touch. Watterson is a longtime "Pearls" fan, the "Calvin and Hobbes" cartoonist told The Washington Post. "Several years ago, when Stephan did one of his strips that mocked his own drawing ability and mentioned my strip in comparison, I thought it might be funny for me to ghost 'Pearls' sometime, just to flip it all on its head," Watterson said. Watterson and Pastis finally exchanged e-mails and Watterson suggested doing something together. "I got that e-mail on a Friday. I think I literally stood up at the couch," Pastis recalls. It may seem like an unlikely pairing. Pastis regularly features himself as a character in his strip and enjoys touring the country, promoting it and his "Timmy Failure" series of children's books. Watterson is known as reclusive and private; there's just one known picture of him in existence. Pastis would be the first to tell you that he's not the world's greatest artist, and his characters -- Rat, Pig, Goat and Zebra -- are drawn with blunt simplicity. Watterson is one of the finest draftsmen to ever pick up a pencil. And Watterson, Pastis learned, isn't the most tech-savvy artist. The "Pearls" cartoonist thought they could exchange work online, but Watterson wanted to use actual hand-delivered mail. "I talked him out of that because I was so scared," says Pastis, noting that any Watterson drawings would be worth thousands. But electronic collaboration had its own challenges. "He could not set the scanner to get rid of the pencil lines. He had trouble even putting (his work) on the scanner straight. He had trouble with e-mail attachments," he says. But Pastis reveled in the trade-offs. "That part of it was funny. With anyone else it would be frustrating. With Bill, I cherished every e-mail." Then came the matter of maintaining the secret. It wasn't easy, especially since Pastis was a finalist for the Reuben Award -- cartooning's highest honor -- this year. The group met in May for its annual honors, and it was all Pastis could do not to scream the news from the heavens. "I'm in a room with 200 cartoonists. You know how hard it is not to say, 'Hey, Bill Watterson is drawing my strip'?" he says. When Watterson's contributions started appearing on Wednesday, eagle-eyed readers may have recognized the style and lettering -- particularly in Thursday's strip, which was full of Martians and robots, "Calvin" favorites. But Pastis suspects many fans were thrown off by Friday's strip, which included two voluptuous women who looked like "Archie's" Betty and Veronica. The reaction to the news has been tremendous, says Pastis. His blog and the "Pearls" comics page each did 10 times their normal traffic. It was enough to blow out a server at Universal Uclick, his syndicator. Now that the Rat is out of the bag, the strips will be auctioned off. Indeed, a primary reason for Watterson's involvement was his activity with Team Cul de Sac, a charity co-founded by cartoonist Richard Thompson, who suffers from Parkinson's. And Watterson may not be as reclusive as his image suggests. Besides his work with "Pearls" and Team Cul de Sac, he's also given an interview to Mental Floss magazine. He may not be returning to daily fare, but it's not like he's turned into a hermit. In fact, after their long-distance collaboration -- which was done entirely through e-mail, without so much as even one phone call -- Pastis finally got to meet his hero last week in Washington when they went to visit Thompson. The pair spent hours talking about Charles Schulz -- a mutual influence -- the challenges of the comic strip business, and simply the wonders of humor. Watterson is "quick to laugh," says Pastis. "When you make him laugh, he really laughs." And Pastis couldn't be happier. "I'm still on Cloud 9," he says. "I will never top this."  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/showbiz/movies/fault-in-our-stars-box-office/index.html	entertainment	'Fault In Our Stars' takes top spot with $48.2 million - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:08:20 EDT 2014	(EW) -- Cue the faux-surprise. Female-targeted films "A Fault in Our Stars" and "Maleficent" wiped the floor with the competition, forcing Tom Cruise's more teenage boy-friendly "Edge of Tomorrow" into a third-spot opening. Women made up a staggering 82 percent of the opening-weekend audience for the adaptation of John Green's YA novel about teenage cancer patients -- comparatively, "Twilight's" initial audience was only 75 percent female. The film made $48.2 million, vaulting it alongside "Love Story" in the firmament of emotionally and financially resonant weepies. That's less than the $56 million "Divergent" made its first three days out, but that other Shailene Woodley-starring YA adaptation cost a whole lot more. Of course, "Fault's" success will probably level out in the coming weeks once the film's steadfast fanbase decides that their eighth bawl-filled screening is enough. (It was a 52 percent drop from Friday to Saturday alone.) But even considering just this weekend, the adaptation is an unqualified success for Fox and stands as more not-quite-shocking evidence that when you target movies at a demographic that's typically underserved -- particularly in the summer months -- you can reap pretty big dividends. Especially when that demographic represents half of the world's population. 'The Fault in Our Stars': Are those tears of joy, critics? Another female-driven success, "Maleficent," dropped only 52 percent to snag second place with $33.5 million. With a two-week total of $127.4 million, the film is lagging behind other CG-heavy Disney reboots like "Alice in Wonderland" and "Oz: The Great and Powerful," both of which featured "Maleficent" director Robert Stromberg as their production designer. But with a strong international gross and still yet to open in the major Asian markets, the Jolie-starring fairy tale looks to be headed for a more-than-comfy global total somewhere in the half-a-billion range. Despite good reviews and Cruise's 100-watt smirk, the sci-fi action flick "Edge of Tomorrow" disappointed with $29.1 million, $8 million less than the similarly packaged "Oblivion" did last year. Directed by Doug Liman, the film stars Cruise as a PR flunkey-turned-soldier who finds himself rebooting every time he dies. But even if Cruise can't outsprint a pair of young cancer victims to the top of the U.S. box office, he can still flex his Hollywood appeal overseas where "Edge" took the No. 1 spot with a much healthier $82 million. 'Edge of Tomorrow': A new day for Tom Cruise? "X-Men: Days of Future Past" raked in another $14.7 million to make its total $189.1 million. In a superhero super-brawl, this means that "X-Men" will almost definitely end up making more than "The Amazing Spider-Man 2," but it'll have to work pretty hard to top "Captain America: The Winter Soldier." Meanwhile Seth MacFarlane's "A Million Ways to Die in the West" continues to flounder after it had a hard time getting its gun out of the holster its first weekend. There were tumbleweeds in the movie theaters this week too, and its second-weekend gross of $7.2 million brings its total to a meager $30.1 million. It appears there isn't much gold in them thar hills. 1. "The Fault in Our Stars"  $48.2 million 2. "Maleficent"  $33.5 million 3. "Edge of Tomorrow"  $29.1 million 4. "X-Men: Days of Future Past"  $14.7 million 5. "A Million Ways to Die in the West"  $7.2 million See the original story on EW.com.  CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly  2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/travel/hotel-two-pack/index.html	travel	Rise of the hotel two-pack - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 08:10:18 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- When Marriott opened its new 68-story hotel overlooking Central Park in New York City back in January, it became the tallest hotel in North America. But its impressive stature wasn't the only thing distinguishing the hotel, it also became one of the growing number of dual-branded hotels cropping up in cities across the globe. A dual-branded hotel -- or "two-pack" as it's called in the industry -- is a property that contains two different hotel brands from within the same hotel family in a singular location. At the aforementioned Marriott in Midtown Manhattan, for example, guests can stay at either the Courtyard hotel occupying floors 6 through 33, or at the Residence Inn found on floors 37 through 65. "Either brand could have done fine on its own here," said Marriott's CEO Arne Sorenson at the hotel's ribbon cutting, "but this gives us the opportunity to tap into two distinct types of customer feeds." The makings of a modern business hotel "Instead of filling up its 639 rooms with just one brand, we can fill it up with two," said hotel developer and owner Harry Gross. The possibility of attracting different target demographics is one of the advantages spurring this growing trend. It's also cheaper for hoteliers. "Dual-branded hotels are designed to maximize resources while minimizing costs for owners and developers," said Ian Carter, the president of global development for Hilton Worldwide. "The most notable benefits to hoteliers are the operational efficiencies and cost savings gained by combining certain areas of the hotel, such as laundry, storage, and employee facilities, and combining the roles of various team members," Carter said. "Owners can also save money on the land costs, since the model has a smaller footprint." THIS is work? Business trips gone right Another advantage is the increased possibility of travelers experiencing new brands and becoming loyal, long-term customers. The benefit for guests? Choice. "The biggest benefit for guests is the added element of choice they receive. Dual-branded hotels can provide more robust amenities than they may be able to individually," said Chris Walker, the vice president of brand experience for Hyatt Place and Hyatt House. For instance, at the new Marriott two-pack property in New York City, guests staying at the Residence Inn part of the hotel have access to the Courtyard's 24-hour fitness center, a perk not usually available to standalone Residence Inn customers. Forget room service: Order a bike Of particular interest to groups and business travelers at the combination Hilton Garden Inn and Homewood Suites that opened in Bossier City, Louisiana, in 2013 is the nearly 9,000 square feet of onsite meeting space, a feature anyone staying at a Homewood Suites typically wouldn't be able to take advantage of. Another example of the multi-branding concept can be found at the bustling L.A. Live complex in downtown Los Angeles. It features an 879-room JW Marriott and a 123-room Ritz-Carlton, along with some residential Ritz-Carlton units, and has proved so popular that Marriott has built another dual-branded hotel directly across the street. The new site, which opened May 29, contains a Courtyard and a Residence Inn, giving visitors even more options and flexibility. Guests of the Courtyard and Residence Inn get unique perks like signing privileges at any of the adjacent Ritz-Carlton's and JW Marriott's restaurants. While dual-branded hotels are the norm, properties flying three or even four different flags are popping up in some destinations with the appropriate market demand. In Canada, for example, Hilton is building a three-pack complex at the Calgary airport, which they're referring to as a "hotel village," that will combine a Hilton, a Hampton and a Homewood Suites. Properties combining different brands from different hotel families are also starting to make their way onto the scene, like the one in the River North neighborhood of Chicago that features one entry each from Starwood, Marriott and Hyatt. With multiple hotels in one place, one might expect there could be a bit of brand confusion among the guests, but developers insist they are careful to maintain each brand's unique identity. "While there are various shared public spaces, each hotel still has its own front desk and lobby space, so the individual brand check-in experience is the same as any other hotel within that brand," said Hilton's Ian Carter. "It is critical that we have clear identities," said Hyatt's Chris Wilson. "Even though the brands are placed next to each other, we are fully committed to preserving the key guest experience elements for which each brand is known." In fact, some hotels don't even advertise the fact that they are a multi-branded property, so a guest who books a room online at, say, the Westin resort in the ski village of Changbaishan, China, may not even know there's a Sheraton on the same spot until they arrive. Whether travelers are aware of the concept or not, multi-branded hotels are only expected to continue to grow in popularity, as the potential benefits for hotel owners and developers can't be denied.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/living/ya-adult-readers-embarassed/index.html	living	Young adult books: Why grownups shouldn't be embarrassed to read them - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 08:50:07 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Kat Kinsman is the managing editor of CNN's Eatocracy and her book "Hi, Anxiety" will hit shelves in August 2015. (CNN) -- It's all John Green's fault. I'm not just talking about the strong likelihood that I'll be ugly-crying in public alongside fellow fans of "The Fault In Our Stars" in a theater near me this weekend -- I mean the fact that I'm reading much fiction at all these days. But apparently I'm supposed to be embarrassed about my love of Green's books. Says who? Says Ruth Graham, author of a recent Slate.com jeremiad that proclaims: "Adults should feel embarrassed about reading literature written for children." Graham goes on to assert that realistic (i.e. non-supernatural, non-dystopian) young-adult-targeted books are somehow supplanting works of literary fiction in adults' reading lives and how that's a "shame." It's the "should" (Slate's italics, not mine) here that vexes me most. It implies that someone else's hierarchy of taste and personal experience takes precedent over your own, when in reality, letting go of that is one of the great spoils of achieving adulthood. Let me get anecdotal here for a second. In my mid-20s, when I was a good deal less assured about my own worth in the world, and rather too highly dependent upon the approval of others, I dated a man who was hampered by neither of those issues. He was six years older than me, born and bred in New York City, possessed of an English degree from a Little Ivy, and let me know in no uncertain terms that he thought my taste in art and media was lowbrow and crappy. I was harangued for my "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" fixation, poo-poohed for my love of "Gilmore Girls" and told that my favorite book -- at the time "The Great Gatsby" -- was "so high school." What should I read then, I'd ask. Something that means something, he'd say, something important. But what I neglected to ask was "Important to whom?" Where did my own pleasure, curiosity and opinion fit in? I'm embarrassed (yes, that word) to say that at the time, I knuckled under. While my boyfriend and I found common ground with Haruki Murakami books and Guy Maddin films, I distanced myself from the words, sounds and images that connected me to the world at large, made me think and feel, and moreover, gave me pleasure. For my annual birthday movie outing, I opted for "Le Temps retrouv" and tossed aside my Jennifer Weiner books to heft up "The Golden Bowl" instead. Was I suddenly a more worthy, worldly person, with bigger, better thoughts? Not that I could tell, but I did get an awful lot quieter about admitting to people what made me happy -- and maybe a little bit judgmental about other people's tastes, too. And that makes the world (at least my world) a little smaller. But that was a long time ago. I've grown up, and the fellow in question has, too. I told him I'd finished "The Golden Bowl" after we'd broken up -- just to impress and spite him, and he admitted to me that he never actually finished any Henry James. We're friends now, and periodically send recommendations of bands and movies and ridiculous YouTube videos to each other, not for the sake of bettering or shaming one another but simply to share something wonderful with someone who will be delighted by it. A brief history of young adult literature Which brings me back to John Green. I surely hadn't stopped reading in the interim years -- and in fact started writing for a living -- but did so with maybe a little more duty and less abandon than in years past. My shelves, and eventually my Kindle app, groaned under the sturdy weight of nonfiction object histories, cultural critiques and work-related memoirs and biographies that made me conversant at parties and a little less giddy about the cerebellum. And if I read any YA fiction or chick lit, I kept my mouth glued shut about it. But then along came "The Fault In Our Stars." It had been recommended to me by smart people I trust, and I had a multi-hour plane flight, so why not? It undammed me. Not just with the obvious, snotty sobbing I did in seat 23A, but in the way that for the first time in ages, I wanted to announce to the world at large that I was in big, sloppy love with a book and I wasn't about to apologize to anyone for that. This quirky novel about two kids in love who are battling life-threatening illness took the brains and psyches of teenagers seriously. It made me hyper-conscious of the seconds between (hopefully) hitting the tarmac safely and a treacherous cab ride on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, because they were standing in between me and the arms of my husband. It made me feel things and do things, and for the life of me, I can't understand that's inferior to knowing more things.  And I've read a lot of YA since then: old favorites from Bette Greene, Robert Cormier, Madeleine L'Engle and Paul Zindel, and a new canon from writers like Green, Rainbow Rowell, Lauren Oliver, Ava Dellaira and a whole host of others who deserve to be heard. I read plenty of other books (yes, for "grownups"), too, and probably even more than I used to because my hunger for good words is so keenly whet. They go down a lot more easily now that I'm not choking on all that embarrassment. Books that changed your lives Are you an adult who reads young adult fiction? We'd love to hear all about it in the comments below.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/living/pinball-popularity-comeback-wired/index.html	living	Inside the wild comeback of tournament pinball - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:04:07 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- In the resurgent world of competitive pinball, brothers Josh and Zach Sharpe are among the elite. Which makes it surprising that neither made the finals in the Illinois State Pinball Championships, unfolding in February in a suburban Chicago basement -- wall-to-wall carpet, couches, pool table, and the relentless din of 14 pinball machines. Pinball is essentially a bat-and-ball game; it's just played on a course that's like a possessed amusement-park ride. When multiple games are live at once, it's a cacophony of bot voices ("Nobody messes with the USA!" "Jackpooooooot!") and clanging bells. The blinking lights are so emphatic they're almost audible. One of the machines, "Attack From Mars," has a warning for epileptics. READ: The mystery of Go, the ancient game that computers still can't win The Sharpes are used to the noise. Zach, a compact 32-year-old with lively brown eyes, is number one or two in the International Flipper Pinball Association rankings, depending on the day. He doesn't have anything to prove. "Some -people take losing a lot harder," he says, smiling. He and Josh, 34, have started a sideline battle for third place on "Theatre of Magic," one of host Jeff Hooper's tournament machines. They take turns, one playing, the other watching the finals. From a field of 16 contestants, the single-elimination competition is down to the two players who beat the Sharpes: Dave Hegge, a shaggy-haired ex-world champ who looks like he emerged from the "AC/DC" game, and the eventual winner, Josh "the Kid" Henderson, a flush-cheeked 16-year-old with his own pinball trading card. READ: Adorably awkward recreations of old family photos Then again, pinball turns all of these guys -- and they are mostly guys -- into kids. There are aging IT professionals, 40-something recruiters, hip freelancer types (and even pinball gangs, says Nick Campbell, a 34-year-old software designer with a "Billy Joel" belt buckle who recently started his own posse, called Dead Flip). These are the obsessive heroes in a new pinball revival. Membership in the IFPA, which hosted this and 27 other simultaneous state tournaments in February, now exceeds 23,000 -- up from just 500 in 2006. In March, its sister organization, the Professional and Amateur Pinball Association, hosted a 400-player tournament, the largest in history. It's easier for people to discover pinball these days, thanks to an increase in game production and a resurgence in cities like Portland, Oregon, and New York, where machines pop up not just in bars but also in skateboard stores, laundromats and doughnut shops. READ: Everything science knows about hangovers -- and how to cure them For many players, pinball's appeal has to do with nostalgia for days spent stretching quarters in college bars or bowling alleys. Others thrive on the competition. Some revel in the electronics or the artwork. Still others -- especially teenagers like Henderson who were raised on video-games -- are attracted to the tactile physicality. For them, pinball is an antidote to the programmed patterns and digitized detachment of screen-based gameplay. "Pinball is in real life. It involves real physics," Henderson says. "It's beyond trying to get the highest score." That a teen today can wax philosophical about pinball can be attributed in large part to Josh and Zach's father (and fellow competitor), Roger, who is somewhere between the Michael Jordan and Santa Claus of pinball. Roger, 65, is from Chicago, the pinball epicenter -- where major manufacturers were based -- but he didn't fall for the game until college. At the University of Wisconsin, he watched in awe as a frat brother dominated a game while simultaneously eating a burger and smoking a cigarette; when this prodigy had to go to class, he left his turn to Roger. "Before he made it out the door, the game had ended," Roger jokes. "I vowed that someday I would have that same level of control and mastery." Roger moved to New York after college, working in advertising and then journalism. Around 1974, eager to buy a pinball machine, he started researching an article that would turn into a definitive book, "Pinball!" A couple of years later, he cofounded PAPA -- which set the standard for scorekeeping and league and tournament play. Then-managing editor of GQ, Roger Sharpe wore many hats in the world of pinball: He didn't just found PAPA, he also wrote for coin-operated-game trade publications and worked as a freelance game designer. (His likeness was drawn into the artwork of his first game, "Sharpshooter," dressed as an Old West gunslinger.) Roger eventually left publishing for pinball full-time, moving back to Chicago in the late '80s to work for industry giant Williams Electronics Games, where he helped license entertainment brands like Elvira and "Gilligan's Island" for use in game design. But one turn at the flippers made him a legend. It was 1976, and many cities -- including New York -- had banned pinball, declaring it a game of chance, aka gambling. So in an audacious gamble of his own, Roger played in front of the New York City Council. The council-members were so impressed by his skill that they reversed the ban, and ruling bodies around the country soon followed suit. With bans lifted, pinball exploded, until being eclipsed by the arcade video-game era of the '80s. ("There was this great swell and release, a boom and bust," Roger says.) Next came the age of the console and the Internet and then the mobile-gaming craze. Now -- thanks to player-collectors and the emergence of "barcades" -- pinball is back. Really, pinball is a game of skill and chance. Players say it's about an 80:20 ratio on newer machines; older ones hew closer to 50:50, because their bumper action is more unpredictable and they have wider-set flippers through which the ball can "drain" out. (Increasingly sophisticated technology has also allowed for more elaborate playfields and "deeper" games in which players work their way through narratives and sequential tasks.) Every playfield contains three potential drains -- the flipper gap, or center drain and the outlanes along each edge -- but in between, on the playfield, each game is a self-contained universe with its own topography and laws. A game rewards players who can analyze and exploit its rule set, securing a multi-ball -- an orgy of point scoring that occurs when multiple balls are released simultaneously -- or executing a shot sequence with a huge payoff. Although the rules of a pinball game can be memorized, no two machines play alike. Nowhere is this truer than at tournaments, where games are groomed like Augusta before the Masters: The back legs can be raised, increasing speed, and the tilt sensor -- measuring how hard a player can jostle a machine before it "tilts," or ends the turn -- can be adjusted. The outlanes can be widened, making the ball likelier to drain. Even the software can be tweaked; if five shots usually earn a multi-ball, 10 might be required in a tourney. "We do that as a last resort," Josh says, "because when a player walks up to a game, they expect it to behave a certain way." This collision of predictability and randomness is the essence of pinball's appeal. Video games have patterns that can be cracked, but every game of pinball is played anew, with real-life variables -- a metal ball moving in controlled chaos -- that force players to react with a highly calibrated combination of reflex and restraint. Bowen Kerins, IFPA's Massachusetts champion and a math-textbook writer, calls it a cross between golf and bull riding: "The game presents you with all of these choices, and you have to navigate them while figuring out a strategy." That includes estimating shot angles and passing the ball from one flipper to the other for a better trajectory ("basic geometry," Josh says). Players also revise strategies on the fly: high-risk, high-reward shots in tight matches or safer ones when they hold a wide lead. Pinballers talk about "slowing the ball down," cradling it on a flipper while plotting moves. "If you control the ball, you control the game," says tourney player Tim Smith, 31. "When it's out of control, you cross your fingers and hope." Before the Illinois tournament, players had an hour to acclimate to the groomed machines: learning tilt sensitivities, perfecting timing, testing strategies. "I'm getting a lot of air balls off the ramp," Joseph Blasi says while playing Theatre of Magic, referring to unexpected trajectories that send his shots flying. Another player asks about changes to the "AC/DC" game. "We have code that nukes the 'Highway to Hell' scoring strategy," Josh says, to audible groans, about a fix that eliminates a player's ability to score extra points just by choosing that song. The practice session is boisterous, but once it ends, the collective tension brings the room to a hush. Pinball is an individual challenge, a one-person game of mental calculus. "If you choke, there's nobody to be mad at but yourself," Zach says. Players curse at themselves but are friendly competitors, with the camaraderie of students taking a final. Almost no one leaves the tournament once they're eliminated, even though it lasts seven hours; they stay late, playing pinball, talking pinball, absorbing pinball. Many predicted they'd have short days anyway, up against three Sharpes, although as it's turned out, Roger -- wrists wrapped, hand towel in his pocket for wiping down the machines -- lost in the first round. Like Zach, he takes it philosophically. "It's you -- whether it's you versus the machine or with the machine," Roger says. "Today I was versus myself." Are you a pinball fan? Share your thoughts in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Living's Facebook page! Read more from WIRED How the NSA could bug your powered-off phone, and how to stop them 30 years after Chernobyl's meltdown, gripping photos expose the human fallout How to fix your iPhone's annoying autocorrect  Subscribe to WIRED magazine for less than $1 an issue and get a FREE GIFT! Click here! Copyright 2011 Wired.com. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/opinion/schwartz-griffith-banderas-divorce/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Griffith, Banderas and the collapse of lifetime marriage - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:41:40 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Pepper Schwartz is professor of sociology at the University of Washington and the author or co-author of 19 books, the latest of which is "The Normal Bar." She is the love and relationship ambassador for AARP and writes the Naked Truth column for AARP.org. The opinions in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- When I heard that Melanie Griffith and Antonio Banderas are divorcing I was surprised at my own reaction, which was, honestly, sadness. I always thought they were an exciting couple -- both are passionate people who conquered a risky business, and each had a past that was just a little messy. Griffith had three marriages before meeting Banderas, two of which were to Don Johnson. Banderas had one previous marriage, but was certainly the epitome of the "Latin lover" in looks if not swagger. And yet they seemed deeply in love and stalwartly committed to each other over the years. I know -- they are a Hollywood marriage, which can be a minefield for marital stability. But for better or worse, these are also real people marrying with hopes of being together forever. Because they are famous, we follow their lives through the tabloid or lifestyle magazines. They become part of our daily landscape and in a strange way as we become invested in their welfare. I realized as a read the story of their breakup that I wanted them to stay together -- forever. I wanted their private lives to have the "happily ever after" of their movies. I thought this pair had deeper roots and a deep enough connection to last for the long run. So, I think my sadness came from the recognition about how unrealistic I was. Hollywood marriages face special pressures that hurt their odds of lasting forever. But even if they were an average couple, the truth is that having made it to 18 or 20 years as they did, does not, in the slightest, guarantee you a sealed forever deal. Marriages these days can fall apart at any stage of the relationship. The famously enduring marriage of Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward turns out to be more of an anomaly than a model. Really, when you think of it, Newman and Woodward were cast from a mold that was formed by a different generation and that mold appears to be broken. Now, long marriages have no guarantees of continuance, even if they have lasted decades. Just ask Robert Redford and Lola Van Wagenen (27 years) or Jerry Lewis and Patti Palmer (36 years). In fact, the statistics tell us that the biggest percentage increase in divorces is among people over 50. So if you thought that getting older formed a protective bubble over your relationship, think again. Lifetime marriage is turning into a crapshoot for many people, especially Baby Boomers. Maybe holding on till "death do them part" is least likely for Hollywood stars whose work takes a hard toll on their relationships and whose exit from marriages is not generally impeded by financial concerns. But really, no marriage is immune against what seems to be an epidemic of marital unraveling. Well, so be it. But we can do things that give us better odds of staying with our spouse. To me, that means we have to be intentional about our relationship every day, year, and decade we are together. We have to aim high, have a lot of fun, work hard at being each other's lover and friend and always do everything we can to repair problems along the way. If it ends, it ends -- but it shouldn't die without having been given every chance to live. So, lets be realistic. You can't predict the future. I thought about this as I was looking at a photo of Melanie Griffith and saw a huge tattoo on her arm that said "Antonio." Uh-oh -- I thought. If you yearn to have a name tattooed on your body, choose your mom's or the name of your first pet. Otherwise, take it from Melanie, Antonio and countless others: Even long marriages have an uncertain future. I am not saying to plan for an exit while you are trying to make a solid entrance, I am just saying -- take care and have a Plan B. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/living/code-talker-chester-nez-native-american-language/index.html	living	World War II code talker Chester Nez and history of Navajo language - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 04:42:55 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Simon Moya-Smith is a citizen of the Oglala Lakota Nation and a writer living in New York. He has a master's degree from the Columbia University School of Journalism. He tweets @Simonmoyasmith.  (CNN) -- Chester Nez, the former Marine and last of the original 29 Navajo code talkers, passed away June 4 at age 93. When an elder dies in Indian country -- especially someone as revered and decorated as Nez, the World War II veteran -- we, Native Americans, feel it, all of us, regardless of tribe or nation. We are also reminded that, not long ago, in the 19th and 20th centuries, Native American culture, including our languages, was considered a threat to U.S. national security. Then, the government worked in collusion with Christian institutions to stamp out Native American languages, including Navajo. "A great general has said that the only good Indian is a dead one," Capt. Richard Pratt famously read from a paper at an 1892 convention. "In a sense, I agree with the sentiment, but only in this: that all the Indian there is in the race should be dead. Kill the Indian in him, and save the man." Pratt was the founder of the Indian boarding schools, institutions charged with turning the "red Indian" into the "noble savage." Native Americans: We're not your mascots Chester Nez attended one of these schools as a child, and was punished when he spoke Navajo. One can't help but think that, had it not been for the resilience of the Navajo people and their resistance to these early oppressive American policies, it's quite possible that World War II could have ended differently. Without the use of the Navajo language that was once discouraged by American policy, the U.S. military could have lost a distinct advantage over its enemy. Nez's death is a reminder that America's strength lies in its diversity. Native Americans, who have not always been included in the American story, should be remembered and honored for their contributions. Before the arrival of the Europeans, there were between 300 and 500 unique languages spoken throughout what is now the United States and Canada. Today, there are fewer than 200, and that number will continue to decrease if North American indigenous language revitalization efforts aren't considered paramount to the continuity of Native American communities by the United States. Opinion: NFL may throw flag on N-word, but what about the 'R-word'? Recently, a neighbor and I were discussing Native American languages. He was curious why more Native American elders "don't just pass on the language to the next generation." I told him that many of said elders still suffer from the trauma they experienced in the Christian boarding school system, and remembered what Ruby Left Hand Bull told me recently. "They'd pierce your tongue if you spoke your language!" my elder recalled. "Or they'd make you stand in front of the classroom and they'd tell you to stick your tongue out and then they'd whip it with a wooden ruler, just for speaking our language." Ruby knew our Lakota language growing up, she said, and very well. But she has lost it, she said. She understands it, but it's all but left her, courtesy of the boarding schools. I told my neighbor, who said he was a third-generation Italian-American, that his people's language could die in New York, but there is no threat that it will become an extinct language any time soon. "There are more Italians speaking Italian every day right across the Atlantic," I said. "You could board a plane or hop a ship today and travel to your home country and hear your people's language reverberating off Italian walls. We, Native Americans, don't share in that luxury. This is it. This is our home country. Our languages are invariably on the brink of extinction, especially since we are 1% of the population. So when a Native American language dies, it's forever gone." Our elders tell us that when a language dies, so, too, does the culture. But all is not lost. There are various campaigns to revitalize Native American languages. The state of Colorado, for example, passed a law stating that Native Americans who speak their language can teach it to students for credit at secondary schools under the category "World Languages." Maybe one day all Native Americans will, again, be fluent speakers of their language -- just like Chester Nez, the warrior. Indeed, the world would be a richer place for it. My hope is that when President Barack Obama visits with our Native American leaders this month at Standing Rock, North Dakota, he will be reminded of the significant contributions of Native American peoples like Chester Nez. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Simon Moya-Smith. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/europe/slavyansk-ukraine-burns/index.html	world	Slovyansk burns as new Ukrainian President Poroshenko yearns for peace - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 04:46:55 EDT 2014	Donetsk, Ukraine (CNN) -- The battle for control of the eastern Ukrainian town of Slovyansk has intensified in the past 24 hours, with civilians caught in heavy crossfire between government forces and pro-Russian separatists. Each side blames the other for mortar and rocket fire that has struck apartment buildings and homes in the town, which is now also suffering acute power and water shortages. Social media video from Slovyansk uploaded Sunday and apparently filmed in the past two days shows extensive damage to an apartment block in the center of the town, which appears to have taken a direct hit to the third floor. Another building was engulfed by fire. Other videos showed people hurrying to basements, with the sound of artillery and rocket fire in the distance -- and at times much closer. The charred ruins of cars littered the streets, and windows in a number of buildings had been blown out. The office of President Petro Poroshenko, who was inaugurated Sunday in Kiev, said he had opened the first meeting of a three-party contact group on implementing a peace plan he had discussed with French President Francois Hollande, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Russian President Vladimir Putin on the margins of the D-Day commemorations on Friday. In an apparent reference to the fighting around Slovyansk, Poroshenko said: "We have to stop fire this week. For me, every day of people dying, every day of Ukraine paying such a high price is an unacceptable one." The talks involve Ukrainian ambassador to Germany Pavel Klimkin, a special envoy with the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe and Russian Ambassador to Ukraine Mikhail Zurabov, the President said. Slovyansk -- normally a city of some 130,000 people -- was taken over by separatists early in April. The Ukrainian army first attacked separatist blockades on its outskirts later that month but subsequently withdrew. Only in the past week have Ukrainian troops moved decisively to bottle in the separatists, using tanks, artillery and rockets against their defenses. A spokesman for the Anti-Terrorist Operation told CNN from outside Slovyansk that the army was not shooting at residential areas and that separatists had launched a counterattack early Sunday. Separatist officials in the town told the Russian news agency ITAR-TASS that artillery fire had been aimed at the city administration building, the former Security Service compound and Police Department -- all of which are occupied by the separatists. ITAR-TASS quoted a local militia official as saying that "there were victims among civilians as many were injured by shrapnel." CNN was unable to confirm the account, but one social media video appeared to show a pool of blood close to the impact of a shell. Overall casualties in Slovyansk are impossible to quantify. A health official with the Donetsk regional administration, Elena Peteyaeva, said 140 bodies had been collected -- but it was not clear over what time span. Peteyaeva said there were only three ambulances at work in the town and very few people were able to get out. A CNN team that reached the area Thursday found all major roads into Slovyansk blocked and deserted. During an extensive tour of the region, only two cars, piled high with belongings, emerged from country tracks. South of Slovyansk, separatist groups have consolidated their hold of several towns in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. A CNN team on Sunday visited Shnizhne, Krasny Luch and Antratsyt, all on or close to the main road east to the Russian border. Separatist roadblocks guarded the fringes of each town in a heavily industrial part of the Donbass region, and dozens of well-armed fighters were seen in the center of Shnizhne. The main administration building in Antratsyt was surrounded by sandbags. One nearby border crossing at Marynivka -- which was the scene of clashes last week when separatists of the so-called Vostok Battalion tried to bring heavy trucks and an infantry fighting vehicle across the border -- had been reinforced by the Ukrainian Border Guard, with additional troops deployed on nearby hills. Even so, the troops deployed at the border admitted it was impossible to patrol the 1,200-mile border effectively, much of it unfenced amid rolling, empty countryside. READ: Ukraine's President vows to defend territory 'no matter what' READ: 'It's hell down there:' Inside the battle for eastern Ukraine READ: Obama warns Russia of further costs if it continues meddling in Ukraine Journalists Azad Safarov and Victoria Butenko contributed to this report 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/world/europe/russia-journalist-murder/index.html	world	Russian journalist's killing: 2 sentenced to life in prison - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 08:43:45 EDT 2014	Moscow (CNN) -- A Moscow court on Monday sentenced five men to prison for the 2006 killing of Russian journalist and fierce Kremlin critic Anna Politkovskaya, including two to life in prison. A jury found that Rustam Makhmudov shot Politkovskaya at her Moscow apartment building in October 2006, the state-owned legal news agency RAPSI said. He and Lom-Ali Gaitukayev, whom the jury found was a co-mastermind of the killing, were sentenced to life in prison, according to the court. The other convicted co-mastermind, former police officer Sergei Khadzhikurbanov, was sentenced to 20 years in prison. Two of the gunman's brothers, Dzhabrail Makhmudov and Ibragim Makhmudov, were convicted as accomplices. Dzhabrail drove Rustam to the apartment building, and Ibragim was a lookout, telling Rustam that the journalist was approaching her home, RAPSI reported. Dzhabrail Makhmudov received a 14-year sentence, and Ibragim Makhmudov was sentenced to 12 years in prison, the court said. A staunch critic of the Kremlin, Politkovskaya was found shot dead in her apartment building while she was working on a series of reports about the restive Russian republic of Chechnya for Novaya Gazeta, an independent Moscow-based newspaper. A man in a baseball cap shot Politkovskaya in an elevator of her apartment block as she was returning home. Politkovskaya chronicled human rights abuses in Chechnya, and those stories led to threats against her, the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists said. Politkovskaya covered the second Chechen war for seven years, and her work angered Russian authorities, the journalists committee said.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/opinion/galdorisi-leave-no-man-behind/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Why we leave no man behind - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:27:24 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Capt. George Galdorisi is a career naval aviator and co-author of "Leave No Man Behind: The Saga of Combat Search and Rescue." He has also written eight other books, including "Tom Clancy Presents: Act of Valor" and "The Kissing Sailor," which proved the identity of the two principals in Alfred Eisenstaedt's famous photograph. His latest book is a reboot of the best-selling Tom Clancy's Op-Center series -- Book One, "Out of the Ashes." The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- "The United States has always had a pretty sacred rule, and that is: we don't leave our men or women in uniform behind," proclaimed a defiant President Barack Obama days after he authorized the swap that brought Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl home after five years in the hands of the Taliban. But has that always been the practice of the U.S. Armed Forces? And why is it worth risking the lives of more soldiers just to bring one lone man or woman in uniform home? You'd be surprised to know why it hasn't always been that way. The concept of the Latin phrase nemo resideo, or "leave no one behind," is almost as old as warfare itself. Greek mythology portrayed heroes who rescued those captured by enemies. Two millennia later, in early colonial America, this mythology morphed into legends such as that of James Fenimore Cooper's Natty Bumppo and the Deerslayer in "The Last of the Mohicans," who famously rescued the helpless from the savage's camp. About a century later, images of the U.S. Cavalry began to appear on the silver screen, riding to the rescue of captured women and children. But with the advent of mechanized warfare and early aviation, the military gained a practical ability to go around or over the enemy to bring back stranded comrades or liberate prisoners of war. Today, the phrase is often attributed to the elite U.S. Army Rangers, who have the language as part of their creed: "I will never leave a fallen comrade to fall into the hands of the enemy." Similar language can be found in the Soldier's Creed -- "I will never leave a fallen comrade" -- as well as the Airman's Creed -- "I will never leave an Airman behind." The Latin version, nemo resideo, is even the motto of the Marine Corps' Personnel Retrieval and Processing Company, the team charged with retrieving the remains of fallen service members from the battlefield. And as conflicting media reports trickle in about numerous search and rescue missions trying to find Bergdahl in Afghanistan, one thing is clear: a dedicated, organized and trained combat search and rescue force is critical to finding and saving our lost soldiers, airmen, sailors and Marines. Those brave soldiers who recovered Bergdahl from his Taliban captors last week and spirited him off were reportedly members of U.S. Special Forces. In fact, when the disoriented Bergdahl first boarded the Black Hawk helicopter, he was said to have scrawled on a paper plate "SF?" "Yes!" shouted at least one man over the roar of the rotors. "We've been looking for you for a long time!" But that team was different from a dedicated combat search and rescue force -- special troops, helicopters and other assets held at the ready -- that has only recently become a permanent fixture in the U.S. military. Opinion: An ugly decision, but the right call On March 23, 2003, Pvt. Jessica Lynch was captured by Iraqi forces in Nasiriyah and rescued a week later by a dedicated CSAR team. Two years later in Afghanistan, nearly two dozen CSAR Special Forces operators were lost while failing to rescue SEAL Lt. Michael Murphy's recon team. The story of that tragedy was told in the recent film "Lone Survivor." Even though the results were different, both actions define the risks and rewards of trying to rescue our warriors held in captivity or trapped behind enemy lines, with roots running through our national ethos for over a century. What is CSAR and how is it different from other rescues? It is a dedicated force fighting for a downed airman or missing soldier, exerting local dominance long enough to suppress hostile opposition and snatch the threatened person from the jaws of a sophisticated enemy. And hurry up doing it. If that is not the situation, then those who argue against dedicated combat rescue organizations are right; send whoever is handy and available. It is not a combat rescue. Any competent helicopter crew should be able to do it. The men and women who make up the CSAR cadre of the U.S. military willingly lay down their lives to rescue their comrades. Opinion: Will Democrats pay a price for Bergdahl deal? But in an era of declining military budgets, with two wars winding down, and with the American public weary of war, it is unclear whether we as a nation are willing to invest in the equipment and training needed to keep our CSAR forces primed and ready. Sadly, history suggests we may not be. The history of rescuing downed airmen by other airmen is as old as the history of air combat. In the World War I, we had no combat search and rescue, although that war saw the birth of the concept of combat rescue. In World War II, we began without combat search and rescue, had unprepared forces attempting rescues on the fly -- often with catastrophic results -- then ended the war with a robust CSAR effort, only to dismantle it in the euphoria of demobilization. In the Korean War, we had a strong CSAR but allowed it to atrophy again. In Vietnam, we finally established one of the strongest CSAR forces to date. For the first time, combat rescue as a mission survived. Between the end of Vietnam in 1973 and Operation Desert Storm in 1991, the need for CSAR was demonstrated often, but the military's CSAR forces subsisted on meager funding. When Desert Storm broke out, the nation's combat rescue capability had degraded to the point our aviators going into combat did not have the backup they sorely needed. Of 87 airmen downed in that war, 39 survived, but only eight were rescued. Of the 31 others, 10 were deemed to have been rescueable but were not. Largely because of the short war and low losses compared with previous wars, however, few noticed this poor showing. We argue sooner or later, somebody has to go down there and get the downed airman or missing soldier. And hurry up doing it. It should be trained, dedicated and fully funded combat search and rescue assets who get there first. Our men and women fighting for America deserve nothing less. We will never leave them behind. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/06/opinion/mcbride-maya-angelou/index.html	opinion	Opinion: The Maya Angelou I knew - CNN.com	2014/06/06	Friday Jun 6 04:48:52 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Martina McBride is a Grammy-nominated country singer and songwriter. You can follow her on Twitter @martinamcbride. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- As her friends, her family and the world celebrated Maya Angelou last weekend, I am struck by the imprint she left on me. Maya Angelou was a shining example of how powerful and strong, good and giving, courageous and dignified, gracious and lovely a human being can be. Her generosity of spirit is truly beautiful. Whether she was doing an interview with a stranger or talking to a friend, she was so giving of her spirit, always making whomever she was talking with feel important and lifted up. Being around her made you want to be the best you could be, because she saw the best we could be. And she was like a bright and shining mirror. Because she saw the best in us, we could see it in ourselves. And once we saw it we had a responsibility to live it. We were talking once about writing songs and why I had been hesitant for so long to really jump in and write my own songs. She said, "Sometimes it's not the fear of failing at something that holds us back. It's the fear of succeeding. Because we know that once we take that step and do whatever we've been holding back and succeed at it, the world will expect more of us." So true. Maya's wisdom and generosity of spirit inspired us all. What if she had hid that light? She was brave enough and open enough and strong enough to share her brilliant mind and spirit with the whole world. And we are all better for it. She made no secret she was a fan of music and particularly a fan of country music. I was beyond honored that she said she liked my music and me, as a woman. "Everything you sing," she once said, "sounds like it comes from your heart." How awesome is that, and to come from Maya Angelou! Maya also shared her wisdom through her words. One of my favorite phrases of hers is: "Can't do is like don't care. Neither of them have a home." But perhaps my very favorite words were the last words she spoke to me. "Come visit me in my home. I will cook for you." Thank you, Maya. You forever changed my world -- our world, the whole world -- for the better. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/business/dos-santos-women-leadership/index.html	iBUSINESS	Girls beat boys at school, so why the glass ceiling? - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 06:23:57 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Nina dos Santos is a news anchor and correspondent based in London. She is the host of CNN International's new business show, The Business View, which airs weekdays at 12pm CET. Follow her on Twitter and tell us, using the hashtag #cnnbusinessview, how can women balance work and children? Paris (CNN) -- This weekend I hosted part of the Global Summit of Women in Paris, set up by a Washington-based organization devoting its time to trying to further women's causes in the world. From politics to business, leaders of countries and industries gathered to share their views on women's empowerment and how to harness their sisters' contribution to society. Providing able and ambitious women with the tools for a successful career isn't just the right thing to do, it's good for business, as some of the biggest economies are finally beginning to grasp. After two decades spent in the financial doldrums, Japan -- one of the most socially conservative societies on the planet -- is now counting on its hidden female potential to help drag the country out of its 20-year slump. In Europe, thanks to the formidable commitment of EU commissioner Viviane Reding, among others, female participation has increased sharply. But to really take hold, moves to mobilize women into the workforce will require more than the usual one-term parliamentary pledge. They need generational commitments, major shifts in the cultural mind-set and years of adaptation. What's more, the prescription should not be the same for all countries. Women in the developing world face a myriad different pressures from those in Europe and the U.S. They also have different priorities. So getting a local perspective is key. While it's generally true that education is key to unlocking potential, girls are already doing better than boys at school in many parts of the globe. But the glass ceiling remains an ever-present stumbling block. Two-time President of Finland Tarja Halonen believes offering practical childcare options (for countries that can afford to do so) is the first step in helping to prevent women feel they have to choose between kids and a career. Having powerful female role models also gives them encouragement to overcome the bias and stigma many working mothers face. President of Malta Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca -- only the second woman to hold the post -- says the stereotypes of women as purely mother and wife material must be smashed while children are in the classroom. She believes the self-belief needed to succeed comes at a tender age. It's fair to say that the choice between having a family and a future in work isn't always a binary one. Indeed, in today's day in age more women than ever before have managed to achieve both. But, as Coleiro Preca points out, not all women have the luxury of choosing between staying home to raise their offspring and going out to work in a job they enjoy. In some nations the lack of access to contraception prevents them from planning when they want to start a family. In others, women who want to take time out to raise their children, find themselves forced by their circumstances to have to take on a job they may not want. "The reality is if you are poor you don't have a choice," she says. "So we need to think of better ways to serve these women as well." Coleiro Preca believes that having more women in positions of power politically gives governments the sensitivity and empathy to look out for the marginalized. One area where much has been achieved in a relatively short period of time is in the corporate sector. Quotas forcing boards to bring on more women have done much to smash sexism in the clubby male world of capitalism. Reding has spearheaded EU moves to make company boards 40% female. But legislature for the very top of an organization can paint an artificial picture of the demographic further down the pay scale. Women workers were particularly hardly hit during the rounds of layoffs in 2008, and an alarming number of them remain underemployed four years on -- stuck in jobs that are either part-time or lower paid than before. Women make all sorts of contributions to society in ways that aren't just related to work and money. They play the vital role of raising the next generation. But for those who also covet a rewarding career, we owe it to them to get the balance right. READ MORE: The best country for women entrepreneurs is..... READ MORE: Why we need to be smarter about quotas   
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/sport/tennis/amelie-mauresmo-andy-murray-coach-tennis/index.html	iSport	Amelie Mauresmo hired as Andy Murray's new coach - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:09:40 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- Women coaches in men's sport are suddenly all the rage. Fresh from Helena Costa becoming France's first ever professional female football coach for a male team, reigning Wimbledon champion Andy Murray has announced double grand slam winner Amelie Mauresmo as his new coach. The world no. 5 has been searching for a new coach since splitting with Czech great Ivan Lendl in March and the Scot announced the new appointment following a French Open semifinal defeat to Rafael Nadal. It is only the second time a player inside the top 10 of the men's rankings has appointed a female coach, with Mauresmo following in the footsteps of Tatiana Naumko -- who worked with Russian former world no. 9 Andrei Chesnokov. "I spoke to Amelie a couple of times on the phone, I met her in Paris in person," the Briton told CNN at Queen's Club, where he will defend his title at the Wimbledon warm-up event this week. "I just had a good feeling about it. She was extremely calm, spoke very well, listened very well. I think communication is really important in individual sport and I'm looking forward to it." Read: Rafael Nadal makes in nine at Roland Garros Mauresmo isn't the first woman to potentially have a significant influence on his career. Murray's mother Judy, who is captain of the British women's Fed Cup team, played a major role in her son's rise to the top and was in his team for a number of years. "I'm really excited to be able to work with Andy," Mauresmo said from Roland Garros, where she was working as a commentator for Eurosport. "He's an amazingly talented tennis player and I feel I have plenty to offer both him and the team around him." Murray and Mauresmo have initially agreed to a short-term arrangement, with the latter, like Judy, committed to the French Fed Cup team. The duo have just two weeks to prepare for Murray's title defense at the All England Club at Wimbledon. After hiring eight-time grand slam winner Lendl in December 2011, Murray's career really took off. He won Olympic gold at London 2012 before clinching his first major at the U.S. Open later that year. In 2013 the Scot ended a 77-year wait for a British champion at the grass-court grand slam with a straight sets defeat of Novak Djokovic. Since that historic win, Murray has struggled with a back injury and he underwent surgery to correct the problem last September. Murray has been playing his way back into form and fitness and reached the last four at Roland Garros, before a resounding defeat to eventual champion Nadal. The 27-year-old will be hoping Mauresmo can help him return to grand slam-winning ways. Read: Maria Sharapova triumphs at French Open Read: French Open's painter to the stars  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/sport/football/miracle-eibar-spain-football/index.html	iSport	'Miracle of Eibar' - Can tiny Spanish club avoid cruel twist of fate? - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 07:07:19 EDT 2014	Follow us at @WorldSportCNN and like us on Facebook (CNN) -- There is only one fairytale story in Spanish soccer this season, but will it have a happy ending? Forget Atletico Madrid's first league title for 18 years, disregard its city neighbor Real concluding an exhaustive wait for "La Decima" -- a 10th European Champions League crown. Because this season is all about the "Miracle of Eibar." The Basque town has a population of just 27,000 and the club a budget dwarfed by almost all its rivals, yet back-to-back promotions have banked Eibar a place in the big time. Having already guaranteed a top-tier place, Eibar also claimed the Spanish second division title after second-placed Deportivo La Coruna lost 3-1 at Girona on Saturday. For the first time in its 74-year history Eibar will compete in La Liga next season, rubbing shoulders with Real Madrid and Barcelona as well as local rivals Real Sociedad and Athletic Bilbao. "I don't know if miracles exist but this is something close to a miracle," Alex Aranzabal, club president since 2009, told CNN. However, amid all the emotion and reverence there is a bitter tinge, because like every famous fairytale fable, the threat of tragedy lurks in the background. Despite being self-sustaining and completely free of debt -- unlike a host of other Spanish clubs -- Eibar could actually be relegated to the third tier of Spanish football. A 1999 decree requires every team to have a capital equal to 25% of the average expenses of all sides in the second division, excluding the two clubs with the biggest outgoings and the two with the smallest. That has hoisted the financial bar way above the head of Eibar, which has responded by launching a share issue to raise the 1.7 million ($2.3 million) needed to take a place at Spain's top table. Unsurprisingly, Aranzabal is unimpressed. While he runs an admittedly small but undoubtedly tight ship, the estimated combined debts of Real Madrid and Barcelona amount to not far off 1 billion ($1.36 billion). "Even though we have a small budget, we have a different economic model to other clubs in Spain," Aranzabal told CNN. "We have less expenses, fewer outgoings and we always have a small deficit. "This is something really strange in Spain because almost every team has huge debt, but in our case we have no debt. "We think it is really unfair because the law was established to assure that all those clubs with a lot of debt had a minimum capital value to attend to all their debts. "In our case we don't have any debt." 'Special model' The club's story has struck a chord with football-loving people the world over, and support has been flooding in for its "Defend Eibar" campaign. Over 1.25 million ($1.7 million) has already been raised, the club's tentacles spreading far and wide thanks to pledges from China, Australia, Argentina, England, Ireland and many more countries. Crucially, no investor can purchase more than 100,000 worth of shares, ensuring Eibar's principles are kept intact. "We want the team to remain for the people -- this is one of the ideas of our special model," Aranzabal explains. "We very much appreciate all the help we have had -- it has been surprising for us, a small club in a small town in the Basque mountains. "We have discovered that we have a story to tell and that people want hear stories like this, that we are fighting against this rule and we have achieved something big. "I hope we will get the money but we have to keep going -- if we relax it is the shortest way to failure. It will be difficult but we will get it." Humility and hard work The question of finance festering in the background has done little to dilute the delirium among Eibar supporters, which pretty much counts as every single inhabitant of the town. Since being formed in 1940 in the aftermath of the Spanish Civil War, the club has never won a major trophy and only flirted with promotion to La Liga once, in the 2004-05 campaign. A teenage David Silva, now a star for the world champion Spanish national side and English Premier League winner Manchester City, was among its ranks then, as was Gaizka Garitano, the club's current manager. He has led the "Armeros" to successive promotions, sticking steadfastly to a culture and identity that has long pervaded the club -- one that embodies the spirit of the tiny town that is equidistant from Bilbao and San Sebastian. Now, should it match or better the result of rival Deportivo La Coruna on the final day of this season, Eibar will be confirmed as Segunda champion. "The secret to their success has been humility, hard work and above everything the spirit of the team," says Unai Eraso, an Eibar native who attended his first match at the age of four. "No-one is above any other. This is indicative of Eibar's culture. The older players teach the younger players how to behave, how to work, how to be a team player. "These young guys when they become older, they will do the same. It is a culture that is passed down from generation to generation. "This year is a like a dream. Under no circumstances did we imagine of getting to La Liga. This is a real miracle." 'All for one, one for all' Mikel Madinabeitia, a journalist with El Diario Vasco, is similarly gushing about the class of 2013-14 and their achievements. "This is football and it is a dream machine. Football is the only sport that allows such things, it would be impossible in basketball or athletics," he told CNN. "It's a typical rags to riches story. I wrote in my newspaper Eibar has been the D'Artagnan of the second division, with that famous catchphrase 'All for one and one for all.' "There are no celebrities in this team, no millionaires. Jota Peleteiro is like the artist of the group, similar to David Silva, who played at Eibar. He's so creative." Promotion may have brought unconfined joy to Eibar, but aside from the financial conundrum, it has also thrown up a different web of problems. Such is Eibar's size and budget, that a summer overhaul is needed if it is to have a chance of holding its own against the best 19 teams in Spain. "It will be so difficult next season because the competition is so different," Madinabeitia said. "Eibar will be the smallest town in the history of La Liga, with the smallest budget. They will have to change 50% of the team. They have a difficult summer ahead. "Real Madrid and Barcelona play in another dimension and there are another set of clubs who play for Europe. If they avoid relegation it will be the most important achievement of Eibar." Welcoming the superstars But that is for another day. Now it is all about raising the money and daring to dream about life in La Liga alongside the soccer elite. "The first day of the season will be very emotional. A day to talk about for all the days of your life," Madinabeitia said. "It will be the happiest day of the season when Barcelona come to Ipurua, a historic day. "Real Madrid played here in the cup some years ago, but not Barcelona. You can imagine the emotion of watching Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo at Ipurua." Aranzabal has barely had time to revel in the club's achievements, being swamped with media requests from around the world as well as spearheading the "Defend Eibar" campaign. But the president is determined this historic opportunity won't see a shift in his club's philosophy. "We won't go crazy wasting a lot of money on getting very expensive players," Aranzabal said. "We want to maintain our team philosophy and do things as we have been doing all these years. "We will try to adapt to the new situation but without getting crazy. We want to stick to our guns and be true to our history." Thanks to the record-breaking achievements of their players, it is a history that is becoming far more widely known. Read: Torres gets nod from Spain Read: 'La Decima' for Real Madrid  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/world/africa/south-africa-zuma-hospital-discharged/index.html	world	South African President Jacob Zuma discharged from hospital - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 08:42:58 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- South African President Jacob Zuma was discharged from the hospital Sunday and will rest at home for a few days, state media reported. Doctors hospitalized Zuma, 72, for a "thorough checkup following a demanding schedule" and "are happy with the results," the presidency said, according to the South African Press Association. "The President will continue to rest for a few days and will work mainly from home during the rest period," said Jeff Radebe, minister in the presidency. "We thank the public for the messages of support and good wishes that have been received since the news of the hospitalization of the president was made public." Zuma was re-elected to a second term last month despite economic woes, deadly mining protests and corruption allegations. Doctors had advised Zuma to rest after "a demanding election and transition program to the new administration," his spokesman said Saturday. His party, the African National Congress, won the general election with 62% of the vote, which was lower than the previous election. After a turbulent first term, Zuma said during his inaugural address that his government will perform better this time around and take responsibility for any shortcomings. "We will ... ensure much tighter accountability, with firm consequences where there is a failure to deliver services to our people," he promised. READ: Opinion: Zuma will win power, but ANC is losing respect READ: Nelson Mandela death: President Jacob Zuma's speech in full CNN's Christabelle Fombu and Susanna Capelouto contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/world/asia/karachi-airport-saima-mohsin-eyewitness/index.html	world	Karachi airport attackers were disguised as security workers - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 05:14:09 EDT 2014	Karachi, Pakistan (CNN) -- As the night wore on, the buildings at Karachi's Jinnah International Airport stood out, silhouetted against a backdrop of oily, orange blazes, the night air punctuated with the unmistakable chatter of machine-gun fire. We arrived on the scene shortly after the Taliban-claimed attack began on the country's largest airport on Sunday night, which left 28 dead -- including 10 attackers -- and 24 injured. The airport, located off the city's main arterial Shahrah-e-Faisal road, had already been sealed off by Pakistan Rangers, a heavily-armed paramilitary force. A number of vehicles -- both emergency and military -- lined the route in. READ: Pakistan Taliban claims responsibility We watched hundreds more rangers pouring in on the back of pickup trucks, guns mounted on top of each one. Terminal targeted Even by the time the media had assembled at the scene, it was apparent things were far from settled. There was a commotion of people around the airport as gun battles still raged nearby, while thick plumes of black smoke drifted high into the sky as what smelled like aviation fuel burned. The gunmen had targeted Terminal 1, the old terminal that had fallen out of regular use. This terminal is only ever used for people flying to and from pilgrimages, for private flights, or sometimes government flights. The gunmen may have chosen this part of the airport as an infiltration point because it is largely vacant. The attackers were trying to cut through barbed wire to get into the airport when they were spotted by Airport Security Force personnel (ASF). A heavy gun battle ensued and four ASF members were killed -- the first fatalities of the attack. The terrorists apparently divided into two groups and hid in two different hangars near the terminal building. One was a hangar run by the national carrier, Pakistan International Airways (PIA), and the other to the right -- where the thick black smoke plumed up before their eyes -- was a large hangar, known as the Ispahani hangar, which is used for wide-body aircraft maintenance. Police said one gunman detonated a suicide vest after being cornered in one of the hangars that contained fuel. Gunmen killed By the early hours of Monday morning, senior government officials had made the VIP area of the terminal building their makeshift command center. We'd just finished an interview with the chief minister of Sindh province, Qaim Ali Shah, when a group of senior military and police chiefs walked in looking very confident. They shook hands with the chief minister and declared that the militants had been killed. There was a quiet a moment of relief among everyone in the room. By contrast, we witnessed a disheveled group of airport workers leaving the building shortly after, their clothes soiled and torn. Most would not talk to the media, saying they were too traumatized to discuss their ordeal. But one older man described how the gunmen ran towards him and his colleagues and started shooting. He said they ran and hid in the toilet. While they were in there, he said they heard what they thought was a bomb. Though they feared the roof would collapse on them, they stayed hidden there for hours until soldiers arrived and told them it was safe to come out. The eyewitness, who asked not to be named, said some of the assailants were disguised as airport security workers, something that was later corroborated by Sindh Security Unit's (SSU) Mohammed Waqar. He said others were dressed in black as airport security force commandos. READ: Pakistan Taliban splits over 'un-Islamic' practices  READ: 'Master bomber' gunned down  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/business/egypt-el-sisi-investment/index.html	iBUSINESS	Investors welcome el-Sisi on inauguration day - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 03:45:16 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Former military leader Abdel Fattah el-Sisi took the oath of president Sunday and was greeted by a stock market rally of 4.7%. This move to military rule is seen as a path to stability and predictability that investors are craving for -- the EGX-30 is up over 75% in the past 12 months and a whopping 137% since the low point at the end of 2011. But make no doubt about it, the country's former military chief has a steep hill to climb to get Egypt's economy back on track. Unemployment, the budget deficit and inflation are currently running between 11-13%, making it difficult for el-Sisi to maneuver. READ: New president vows to 'correct the mistakes of the past' The president and his new cabinet will need to push forward with structural and tax reforms to attract foreign direct investment. He has hired external consultants to advise on jump-starting growth, which closed out the 4th quarter of 2013 with a meager expansion of just under 1.5%. Alia Moubayed, Director of MENA Research for Barclays said on a recent visit to the Middle East that "investors are worried about the ability of having a president and government that will be able to build consensus around reforms." Companies want to be able to tap the region's most populous country of 85 million consumers, but according to Moubayed they worry those efforts may be "further interrupted by political volatility and instability." Monetary insurance There are a trio of countries that have stepped in to provide a monetary insurance policy for Egypt. They have been so active since the ouster of former President Mohamed Morsi that they are now referred to as the GCC-3 (Gulf Cooperation Council) or G-3. Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the UAE share two common traits: A disdain for the Muslim Brotherhood (and its affiliates in the Gulf) and vast oil surplus funds to try and solve political challenges. Together they have pumped in an initial $12 billion and there is a great deal of talk in the market that they are prepared to do so again if needed. As of the end of April, Egypt's foreign exchange reserves stood at $17.5 billion -- a three-month supply. They are eager to manage this period of transition to try and provide both the infrastructure and governance for sustainable growth. This year, UAE-based developer Arabtec signed a $40 billion agreement to build low income housing in Egypt, and the government put in another $5 billion to construct wheat silos to reduce wastage of their grain crops. These governments and their entities, sources say, don't plan to be the lenders of last resort forever and this time they may not have to. Last Thursday, IMF managing director Christine Lagarde talked on the phone with el-Sisi and expressed her organization's commitment to helping the country in its transition period. The sticking point over the last three years of "on again, off again" talks has been a willingness to bite the bullet on economic reforms. After the Arab Spring chaos, this may be the former military leader's toughest test. He needs to illustrate to his Gulf partners and the IMF he has the mettle to deliver painful reforms and keep Egyptians on his side.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/travel/shirahama-wakayama-japan/index.html	travel	Shirahama: Naked men, giant pandas and one of Japan's whitest beaches - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 08:49:39 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- If you've never been to a Japanese onsen, there's one tiny bit of protocol worth knowing before you plunge into those steamy waters. Nudity isn't just the norm, it's the rule. A testament to the shock some of us Japan first timers experience upon learning we have to doff our skivvies to take part in the country's favorite holiday past time, multilingual signs are frequently posted outside the more popular hot springs to outline onsen etiquette. The best ones have hilarious cartoon depictions for added emphasis. Things are no different at historic Sakinoyu Onsen, a gorgeous hot spring facility right on the coast of Shirahama in Japan's Wakayama prefecture. One of the three most revered onsens in Japan and more than 1,300 years old, it's mentioned in historic Japanese texts and was once visited by emperors and noblemen. But you still have to get naked. Nowhere to hide At the entrance of the wooden building, visitors enter through the men (blue) or women's (red) doors to reach changing rooms which open up to a series of beautiful stone pools filled with natural mineral waters, edged only by the Pacific Ocean. A high wooden wall divides ladies and gents. The manager of Sakinoyu says that on the days when the sea is rough, waves are known to crash over the rocks, giving bathers a refreshing cool down. "We've had foreign tourists get too hot and decide they want to take a naked dip in the ocean, only to be pulled away by the current and in need of rescue," he says with a laugh, adding that this actually isn't allowed. A wall of huge rocks keeps the women safe from outsiders' eyes, but the men aren't so fortunate. Their pools are easily viewed from several rooms in the nearby Hotel Seamore, as well as a viewing platform, where I find myself barely an hour later. Did I dare look across the shining waters to "see more"? Of course. Admittedly, I'm not much of a voyeur. At the first blurry glimpse of naked male flesh I direct my eyes anywhere but that onsen. MORE: 10 things that make Wakayama Japan's best kept secret Aussie sands, chilly waters  Shirahama isn't just about historical hot tubs and naked humans. It's beautifully compact, centered around a long, blindingly white beach -- the sand was imported from Australia -- book ended by impressive rock formations, fishing piers, free onsen foot baths and a few kitschy attractions. Dotted with aging hotels, Shirahama Beach has a seaside resort vibe that takes off in the summer, with street vendors and nightly fireworks. As I walk across its white sands, I'm floored by how unexpected it feels to find such a beach outside of semi-tropical Okinawa. The beach is so pristine I feel I could be in the Caribbean. That illusion is shattered by dipping my feet in the ocean to be reminded with a jolt that Japan's coastal waters are still chilly in May. Nonetheless, proving yet again my theory that children possess underdeveloped thermoreceptors, many kids splash about happily nearby. Back up on shore, the open-air Shirasuna beachside onsen -- swimsuits permitted -- is a nice way to warm up post swim. MORE: The 8 fiery 'hells' of Beppu, Japan's hot spring capital Made for breeding giant pandas Shirahama is a hot spot for Japanese families, due in part to the presence of Adventure World. No ordinary theme park, Adventure World also has a zoo that is home to seven giant pandas -- the most of any zoo in Japan -- including twins born in 2010. It's credited with having one of the the most successful panda-breeding programs outside of China, and is the Japanese branch of China's famed Chengdu Panda Research Base. References to the local celebs can be found all over the town, in the form of kawaii (cute) souvenirs and signage. Pirate hideaways and one giant rock tatami mat Another top attraction is Shirahama's Sandanbeki cliffs and caverns. Up to two kilometers of steep cliffs, some 50 meters high, make up this stunning site, where birds of prey regularly circle overhead. Visitors can take an elevator down 35 meters to the underground caves (open daily, 8 a.m.-5 p.m.) to see where the ocean rushes in. There's also a small exhibit showing how Kumano pirates of the Heian era (794-1185) used the caves as hiding spots. Nearby is Senjojiki rock. Eroded by thousands of years of sea action, the rock's name loosely translates to "1,000 tatami mats," supposedly because it resembles the popular Japanese flooring material. Engetsu Island Shirahama's rock stars don't end there. Engetsu Island is a 130-meter-wide rock formation, famous for the moon-like hole in the middle. Designated a "place of scenic beauty of Japan", it's easily viewed from a road on the nearby mainland. At sunset, the sun appears right in the center of the hole, making it a favorite with photographers. Where to eat/shop Shirahama is all about seafood. I had a fabulous seafood BBQ meal at Shirahama's recently opened pier-side Fisherman's Wharf. The venue has an Italian restaurant and a Japanese restaurant, but the real prize is the rooftop Club Caribbean joint with its views of the nearby beach. Here, diners can choose live seafood from the market on the main floor and cook it themselves on a little grill. For those who find watching shellfish writhe on hot metal a bit too gruesome, there's a non-seafood menu of beef and pork. Just outside of Shirahama lies the massive Tore Tore Ichiba Market. Visitors can take in a tuna cutting demonstration and shop for seafood, produce, fruit and countless Japanese souvenirs. There are also a few quality dining options, including a food court and a seafood BBQ spot where you can cook up the fresh seafood you just bought at the market. MORE: Japanese cuisine by region -- which is best? The local brew Umeshu is Shirahama's drink of choice. A few kilometers outside Shirahama on the way to the city of Tanabe sits Nakata, one of Wakayama's biggest ume (Japanese apricot) fruit processing and brewing factories, which is open for tours. "Everything is carried out by hand, as the fruit is too delicate to be handled with machines," explains Nakata's president, Yoshiaki Nakata, whose great grandfather founded the company. MORE: Bamboo Forest vs. Stone Castle: The rival empires of Japanese whiskey Where to stay The 109-room Kaisyu Hotel (rates from 23,500 yen/$229) offers great food, private onsens, comfortable Japanese and Western rooms with sunset views, plus a few cliffside cottages. Upon check in, guests leave their shoes at the door and are invited to select from a variety of Japanese yukata (robes) or samue (shirt/pant combo). It's rather fun seeing everyone plodding around in their bare feet through the lobby, wearing their robes to dinner. The hotel is lacking in English speakers/materials, but staff are very friendly and make an effort. Travel/contact info Shirahama Station is two hours and 30 minutes from Shin Osaka station on the JR Kinokuni Line Express Train. The town has a decent bus system that will get you to many of the major stops, including Adventure World, the beach, Sakinoyu Onsen, Tore Tore Market and Sandanbeki. Sakinoyu: 1668 Shirahama Town, Nishimuro District; +81 (0)73 942 3016 Adventure World: Nishimuro, Katata Shirahama, Wakayama 649-2201; +81 (0)57 006 4481 Fisherman's Wharf: 649-2211 Nishimuro-gun, Shirahama, Wakayama 1667-22; +81 (0)73 943 1700 Tore Tore Ichiba Market: 2521 Katata Shirahama, Wakayama 649-2201; +81 (0)73 942 1010 Nakata: 1475 Shimomisu, Tanabe, Wakayama 646-0292; +81 (0)73 922 2486 Kaisyu Hotel: 1698-1 Shirahama, Nishimuro, Wakayama MORE: 11 extremely practical Japan travel tips CNN Travel's series often carries sponsorship originating from the countries and regions we profile. However CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports. Read the policy. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/08/justice/las-vegas-shooting/index.html	crime	Gunmen kill 2 police officers, another person and themselves in Vegas - CNN.com	2014/06/08	Sunday Jun 8 04:58:49 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Two Las Vegas police officers were were shot and killed along with a civilian bystander late Sunday morning by a gun-toting duo declaring "revolution," authorities say. Las Vegas Metropolitan Police spokeswoman Laura Meltzer says the attackers -- one male and one female -- opened fire inside of a CiCi's Pizza location at 11:30 a.m, killing the officers as they ate lunch, she said. Clark County Sheriff Douglas Gillespie identified the slain officers as 41-year-old Alyn Beck and 31-year-old Igor Soldo. Beck, a 13-year LVMPD veteran, leaves behind a wife and three children. Soldo, who also leaves behind a wife and baby, joined the force in 2006. The names of the suspects have not been released, and a motive is not known, but witnesses told police that the shooters said "this is a revolution." After killing the officers, Meltzer said the pair then went across the street and into a Walmart, where they killed a female at the store's entrance. Her name has not yet been released. As police converged on Walmart, Gillespie says the female suspect shot the male suspect before turning the gun on herself. The city's public figures were quick to condemn the violence. "This was a senseless and cruel act killing three innocent people, two who dedicated their lives to protecting all of us in our community and one who was innocently going about her daily life" said Las Vegas Mayor Carolyn Goodman. "I am devastated by the news today of two officers and an innocent bystander who were murdered in an act of senseless violence," added Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval. My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their families." Both Walmart and CiCi's issued statements expressing condolences. "We express our deepest condolences to everyone who have been affected by this senseless act of violence," said Walmart spokesperson Brooke Buchanan. "We are deeply saddened by this tragic event and our hearts go out to the families and friends of the officers," said Geoff Goodman of CiCi's. CNN's Matt Stucker and Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/09/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/kourtney-kardashian-pregnant/index.html	entertainment	Yes, Kourtney Kardashian is pregnant - CNN.com	2014/06/09	Monday Jun 9 09:09:46 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- There's no doubt about it now: Kourtney Kardashian is expecting her third child with partner Scott Disick. The 35-year-old reality star confirmed speculation about her pregnancy in a teaser segment for E!'s "Keeping Up With the Kardashians" following Sunday night's ninth season summer premiere. The teaser shows Kardashian surprising Disick and her mother, Kris Jenner, with the news. Yet the announcement wasn't much of a surprise to fans as reports of her pregnancy began circulating days before Kardashian's reality TV reveal. A source confirmed the news to People magazine on June 4, saying that the eldest Kardashian is "really excited, but nervous too. Three kids is a lot to handle! But she's happy -- she's always wanted a big family with Scott." Disick and Kardashian, who have been dating for more than seven years, are also parents to Mason, 4, and Penelope Scotland, who will turn 2 on July 8.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/12/opinion/neil-bush-happy-birthday-dad/index.html	opinion	Opinion: What Bush 41 wants for his birthday - CNN.com	2014/06/12	Thursday Jun 12 11:27:33 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Editor's note: CNN will air "41ON41," a film about President George H.W. Bush, the 41st President of the United States, based on interviews with 41 people who know him best, at 9 and 11 p.m. ET Sunday, June 15. Neil Bush chairs the board of Points of Light, the largest organization in the world dedicated to volunteer service. He will join Chelsea Clinton to demonstrate that "Service Unites" on June 16 at the Points of Light Conference on Volunteering and Service in Atlanta. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- People keep asking me what my dad might like for his 90th birthday on June 12. I think I can answer that one. He'd like to jump out of an airplane and feel that freedom one more time. He'd like to have his family and close friends around him for a quiet celebration. He'd like a good martini with a couple of olives. But most of all, I know he'd like you, on the occasion of his birthday, to give to others. Volunteer service is Dad's true north. He made it a centerpiece of his presidency, encouraging millions of people to look within to find "your own special genius for helping others." He gave 1,020 Daily Point of Light Awards from the White House to inspire people to volunteer and to prove that "somewhere in America, every serious social problem is being solved through voluntary service, for therein lies the greatest national resource of all." In the years since he left the White House, Dad joined forces with former President Bill Clinton to support victims of Hurricane Katrina and the Indian Ocean tsunami -- and the volunteers who showed up afterward to help rebuild. Opinion: What George H.W. Bush, at 90, can teach millennials Last July, he and Mom traveled to the White House to join President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama and hundreds of others in a special ceremony to present the 5,000th Daily Point of Light Award to an Iowa couple fighting world hunger one meal at a time. So what would he really like for his birthday? He'd like you to go to BeOne.PointsofLight.org and pledge to pitch in. As Dad said, "It doesn't matter who you are. Everybody's got something to give: a job skill, a free hour, a pair of strong arms." I hope you'll volunteer as a way to honor my Dad -- or yours (Father's Day is Sunday). Or volunteer as a way to be good to yourself; researchers say it leads to healthier, happier lives. Whatever your cause, whatever your motivation, I hope you'll agree with me that volunteer service is an extraordinary gift. Thanks for everything and happy birthday, Dad. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/12/opinion/madowitz-meh-economy/index.html	opinion	Opinion: Why we're living in a meh economy - CNN.com	2014/06/12	Thursday Jun 12 11:40:29 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Michael Madowitz is an economist at the Center for American Progress, a Washington-based progressive think tank. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. (CNN) -- Remember when the Great Recession ended? It was 5 years ago this month. When you combine stagnant incomes for most workers, a long-term problem, with a recovery that's been robust at the top (the S&P 500 has more than doubled since the end of the recession) but tepid for most Americans (employment is up 5.7 percent since then) you get what we have today: the 'meh' recovery. This mediocre recovery is partly due to long-term shifts in our economy -- a change in how we recover from recessions, rising healthcare costs, stagnant income growth for most Americans and the fact that our policies haven't caught up to the rise in mothers' working hours. Both researchers and policymakers have much work to do in understanding how to respond to these shifts as a nation. The other driver of our middling economy is transparently bad short-term economic policy by our elected officials -- specifically, an obsession with what turn out to be miniscule, fleeting reductions in our national debt that have hurt the long-term health of the economy. Running short-term government deficits to assist the private sector in economic recovery is what JFK once called the Economics 101 approach to policy. Unfortunately, today's politicians are acting like they failed Econ 101. Elected officials love discussing the U.S. economy through metaphors of family budgeting, but this falls apart on closer inspection. It's true that losing a job means you cut back on spending, but you don't also try to pay off your car loan, credit cards and mortgage. When our income falls we increase our debts, and we should -- starving your kid to pay off a car loan is a terrible long-term decision. Cutting our debts has been a terrible long-term decision for the U.S. economy as well We've lowered our debts by billions, but reduced our long-term GDP by over $1 trillion per year. The longer-term trends are harder to address. Unless you had to Google meh, you may not remember, but prior to 1990, you could trace U.S. job growth and spot the recessions as a series of V-shapes, big drops followed by rapid returns to the long-term trend. The recession that ended in March of 1991 broke that trend; there were fewer jobs a year into the recovery than there were at the end of the recession. Unfortunately 1991 turned out to be the new normal -- instead of looking like V shapes, jobs data from recessions now look more like L-shapes, with an initial drop followed by periods of slow job growth. In all 3 recoveries since 1990, we've seen GDP, corporate profits and stock prices rebound relatively rapidly, without accompanying job and income growth for quite a while, if at all. Why? We don't know. Slow job growth means stagnant incomes -- it's basic supply and demand. With more workers chasing fewer jobs, wages have failed to keep up with productivity gains. An American worker today is about 75% more productive than she was in 1973, but compensation, which historically tracked productivity closely, has only increased by about 10% since then, and the share of GDP earned by workers has fallen considerably from its long-run average since about 2000. Stagnant incomes are not just a simple story of corporations squeezing employees. Pay and benefits actually grew modestly over the last decade, but workers didn't see these gains; they all went to paying for more expensive health insurance. We have a new law that many economists are optimistic will help slow health care costs, but as you may have heard, it's become a bit politicized. Arguably the most outdated policies are the ones that haven't been updated since working mothers became crucial to the economic health of families -- mothers work 2.5 times more hours today than in 1979. Free universal education is a basic right for all Americans, just not for those under 5. The effect of this on families is profound. Childcare costs can look a lot like college tuition, but because parents pay for it when the kids are young, they haven't had time to build up assets to draw upon. And paying for childcare makes it hard to save for retirement when you're young, exactly when you should be. There is a tax deduction for childcare, but it will only cover full-time care if you can keep the cost under $2.50 per hour. The amount hasn't been increased in a generation. This has been a steep recession and a slow recovery. Our politicians have a lot to do with that. But it's not just short-term problems that are leaving Americans underwhelmed. Perhaps the reason it feels like the economy hasn't been performing well for a while is that, aside from the 1990s, it hasn't. Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/12/world/meast/who-is-the-isis/index.html	world	ISIS: The first terror group to build an Islamic state? - CNN.com	2014/06/12	Thursday Jun 12 04:22:07 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- The face of a balding, middle-aged man stares unsmilingly into the camera. He is dressed in a suit and tie and could pass for a midlevel bureaucrat. But the photograph is that of Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, who has transformed a few terror cells harried to the verge of extinction into the most dangerous militant group in the world. The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria has thrived and mutated in the security vacuum that followed the departure of the last U.S. forces from Iraq and the civil war in Syria. The aim of ISIS is to create an Islamic state across Sunni areas of Iraq and in Syria. With the seizure of Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city, and advances on others, that aim appears within reach. ISIS controls hundreds of square miles where state authority has evaporated. It ignores international borders and has a presence all the way from Syria's Mediterranean coast to south of Baghdad. How to respond to the ISIS threat What are its origins? In 2006, al Qaeda in Iraq -- under the ruthless leadership of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi -- terrorized Sunni parts of Iraq as it tried to ignite a sectarian war against the majority Shia community. It came close to succeeding, especially after the bombing of the Al-Askariya Mosque, an important Shia shrine in Samarra, which sparked retaliatory attacks. But the killing of al-Zarqawi by American forces, the vicious treatment of civilians by AQI, and the emergence of the Sahwa (Awakening) Fronts under Sunni tribal leaders nearly destroyed the group. Nearly, but not quite. When U.S. forces left Iraq, they took much of their intelligence-gathering expertise with them. Iraqi officials began to speak of a "third generation" of al Qaeda in Iraq. Two years ago, a former spokesman for the U.S. military in Iraq, Maj. Gen. Jeffrey Buchanan, warned that "if the Iraqi security forces are not able to put pressure on them, they could regenerate." The capability of those Iraqi forces was fatally compromised by a lack of professional soldiers, the division of military units along sectarian lines and a lack of the equipment needed for fighting an insurgency, such as attack helicopters and reconnaissance capabilities. The new al Qaeda was rebranded in 2006 as the "Islamic State in Iraq." It would add "and Syria" to its name later. The group exploited a growing perception among many Sunnis that they were being persecuted by the government led by Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, starved of resources and excluded from a share of power. The arrest of senior Sunni political figures and heavy-handed suppression of Sunni dissent were the best recruiting sergeants ISI could have. Who is its master of terror? Abu Bakr al Baghdadi graduated to the top job in 2010 -- at the age of 39 -- after Abu Omar al Baghdadi was killed in a joint U.S.-Iraqi operation. At the time, al Qaeda in Iraq, which had been rebranded as the Islamic State in Iraq in 2006, was in a pitiful state. But with U.S. forces and intelligence on the way out, he set out about reviving the group. Very little is known about al Baghdadi, but a biography posted on jihadist websites last year said he held a Ph.D. in Islamic studies from a university in the capital. He formed his own militant group in the Samarra and Diyala areas, where his family was from, before joining al Qaeda in Iraq. Al Baghdadi even served four years in a U.S. prison camp for insurgents, at Bucca in southern Iraq -- a time in which he almost certainly developed a network of contacts and honed his ideology. He was released in 2009 and went to work. Where does the group's money come from? In the beginning, al Baghdadi focused on secrecy -- with loosely connected cells making it more difficult to hunt down the leadership -- and on money. Extortion, such as demanding money from truck drivers and threatening to blow up businesses, was one revenue stream; robbing banks and gold shops was another. It seemed the group had become little more than gangsters, but the income would help finance a growing stream of suicide attacks and assassinations that would poison the political atmosphere. It would also aid the recruitment of Sunni tribal fighters and finance spectacular prison raids that liberated hundreds of fighters, as well as attacks on police patrols and the assassination of officials. Now, al Baghdadi has a new strategy for generating resources: large-scale attacks aimed at capturing and holding territory. Ayham Kamel of the Eurasia Group, a U.S.-based consultancy, says that in the latest iteration of this strategy, ISIS will "use cash reserves from Mosul's banks, military equipment from seized military and police bases and the release of 2,500 fighters from local jails to bolster its military and financial capability." What's been its key to survival? Al Baghdadi avoided al-Zarqawi's mistakes. ISIS avoided alienating powerful tribal figures. When it captured Falluja, west of Baghdad, in January, it worked with local tribal leaders rather than raise its black flag over the city. One of the group's ideologues, Abu Mohammed al-Adnani, even admitted: "As for our mistakes, we do not deny them. Rather, we will continue to make mistakes as long as we are humans. God forbid that we commit mistakes deliberately." What is it trying to accomplish? It wants to establish an Islamic caliphate, or state, stretching across the region. ISIS has begun imposing Sharia law in the towns it controls. Boys and girls must be separated at school; women must wear the niqab or full veil in public. Sharia courts dispense often brutal justice, music is banned, and the fast is enforced during Ramadan. How is it drawing support? ISIS is, in essence, trying to capture and channel the resentment of the Sunni street. And in both Syria and Iraq, it is trying to win favor through dawa -- organizing social welfare programs and even recreational activities for children, distributing food and fuel to the needy, setting up clinics. Again, having the money matters. The price it demands is enforcement of the strict Sharia code. How does Syria fit into the picture? A senior U.S. counterterrorism official told CNN this week that ISIS looks at Syria and Iraq as "one interchangeable battlefield and its ability to shift resources and personnel across the border has measurably strengthened its position in both theaters." The explosion of violence in Syria was a gift to al Baghdadi. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lost control over large parts of the North and the long border with Iraq. The group, still known as ISI at the time, could build a refuge, a rear base, where it could recruit foreign fighters, organize and escape from any Iraqi army operations. Al Baghdadi may have sent operatives across the border as early as the autumn of 2011, and the group later changed its name -- adding "al Sham" for Syria. It moved swiftly to take control of the Syrian province of Raqqa, aided by the al-Assad regime's focus on Homs and Aleppo. What is its relationship with other al Qaeda groups? As it has grown in strength, the group's vision of a caliphate under its control has expanded. Its ambition extended to declaring early in 2013 that it was absorbing another militant group in Syria, the al-Nusra Front. According to some accounts, al Baghdadi had been instrumental in creating the group; now he wanted its obedience. The declaration -- and al-Nusra's rejection of it -- set off a rare public clash between two groups that both saw themselves as part of al Qaeda. From his hideout somewhere in Afghanistan or Pakistan, al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri at first tried to mediate between the two, and then disowned ISIS when it refused to concentrate on Iraq. Rather than seek reconciliation, ISIS has hit back. Earlier this year, the group's spokesman, Abu Mohammed al-Adnani, told al-Zawahiri in a recording: "Sheikh Osama (bin Laden) gathered all the mujahideen with one word, but you divided them and tore them apart." "You make the mujahideen sad, and make the enemy of the mujahideen gloat because you support the traitor, and you make the heart bleed," he said -- referring to the leader of the al-Nusra Front, Abu Mohammed al-Jolani. It was another sign of the extraordinary confidence of the ISIS leadership. Despite the rift, ISIS' success against what are seen by militant Sunnis as loathsome Shia regimes in Syria and Iraq has attracted thousands of foreign fighters to its ranks, enabling it to continue battling al-Nusra in Syria while preparing for its big offensive in Iraq. What is its strategy? For Western counterterrorism agencies, the combination of fanaticism and disciplined organization is the nightmare scenario. ISIS has plenty of both. While the world was shocked by its sudden capture of the city of Falluja, ISIS was still focused on a bigger prize: Mosul and the province of Nineveh. Operations in Falluja and elsewhere in the western province of Anbar were meant to (and did) draw Iraqi forces away from the North. It has developed an ability to conduct operations -- from suicide bombings and attacks on the security forces to wresting control of towns -- in several regions at once, keeping the demoralized Iraqi army off balance. And battle experience has created a resilient force capable of ever more sophisticated attacks. In raids on Samarra, for example, its fighters used bulldozers to remove barriers that had been in place since the U.S. occupation. Some analysts expect critical parts of the Iraqi oil infrastructure around Mosul to be among its future targets. Where does its weakness lie? ISIS runs the risk that its rapid expansion -- and threat to the Iraqi state -- will overstretch the group. In northern Syria, it has retreated from some towns it held after clashes with al-Nusra and other groups. Al-Nusra is making common cause with other groups in an anti-ISIS front. And by taking Mosul, which Iraq's Kurds see as in their sphere of interest, ISIS may invite greater cooperation between the Iraqi army and experienced Kurdish fighters. A U.S. counterterrorism official told CNN that ISIS "still has significant weaknesses. It has shown little ability to govern effectively, is generally unpopular, and has no sway outside the Sunni community in either Iraq or Syria." To many analysts, that smacks of complacency. How significant is its threat? The weakness of the governments ISIS is confronting -- and the hatred for those governments among Sunnis -- means that a few dozen truckloads of fighters can seize towns and cities, overcoming forces many times larger by their sheer ferocity and battle experience. In the words of the Soufan Group, a political risk consultancy, "ISIS has become indisputably the most effective and ruthless terrorist organization in the world." "It now challenges the authority of two of the largest states in the Middle East, and has attracted significant numbers of fighters, not just from Iraq and Syria, but also from Saudi Arabia and other Arab states including Jordan." There is no doubting the group's confidence and ambition. ISIS spokesman al-Adnani took to Twitter Wednesday to declare, "The battle is not yet raging it, but it will rage in Baghdad and Karbala. Put on your belts and get ready," according to a translation by the SITE Intelligence Group. Al-Adnani openly mocked al-Maliki as an underwear salesman who had lost Iraq for the Shia. "You lost a historic opportunity for your people to control Iraq," he said, "and the Shi'ites will always curse you for as long as they live." READ: Predictions revisited: Iraq's troubles are years in the making, experts say READ: Opinion: How ISIS and Iraq upheaval threatens the wider world READ: The siege of Mosul: What's happening? Why is it significant?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/12/politics/iraq-obama/index.html	politics	Obama says Iraq going to need more help - CNN.com	2014/06/12	Thursday Jun 12 01:00:55 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- President Barack Obama said on Thursday the United States will "not rule anything out" with regard to the situation in Iraq, but that it will need more help. Obama made the remarks at the White House as the security situation worsens with Iraq's second-largest city, Mosul, firmly under the control of the militant group the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. U.S. officials previously said things there are "extremely urgent" and the United States is looking to see what more support it can provide. "This is an area that we have been watching with a lot of concern," Obama said, noting the United States and the international community should extend additional support. "So my team is working around the clock to identify how we can provide the most effective assistance to them," Obama said. "I don't rule out anything because we do have a stake in making sure that these jihadists are not getting a permanent foothold in either Iraq or Syria, for that matter." However, a senior administration official followed up by saying the use of American ground forces is not under consideration. "No boots on the ground. Not being considered," the official said. Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari told CNN on Thursday that no one is calling for "American troops into Iraq." He said Washington has been cooperative and has a responsibility to be proactive in the current fight against militants. The U.S. government has already provided $15 billion in training, weapons and equipment to the Iraqi government. Iraq on Wednesday indicated a willingness for U.S. airstrikes. But there has been no indication if that's under consideration. Obama also came under pressure over Iraq from foreign policy critics in Congress. "The President should get rid of his entire national security including the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff," Sen. John McCain, an Arizona Republican, said prior to a classified briefing for Armed Services Committee members. He said Obama should bring back David Petraeus, the former commander of American forces during a decisive period of the Iraq War, among other Bush-era generals to "turn this whole situation around." Although McCain was highly critical of Obama's handling of Iraq, he did not advocate for military airstrikes. House Speaker John Boehner declined to take a stance but suggested the Obama administration should have taken action earlier. "I think what we should do is to provide the equipment and technical assistance that the Iraqis have been asking for," the Ohio Republican said. "But it's not like we haven't seen this problem coming for over a year, and it's not like we haven't seen over the last five or six months, these terrorists moving in, taking control of western Iraq, now they've taken control of Mosul, they're 100 miles from Baghdad, and what's the President doing? Taking a nap," Boehner added. Another reliable voice against the administration's foreign policy agenda, Sen. Lindsey Graham, acknowledged that Americans are tired of dealing with conflicts in the Middle East. "But the people that are moving into Iraq and holding ground in Syria have on their agenda not only to drive us out of the Mideast but hit our homeland," he said. Some Democrats, however, urged caution about getting involved in Iraq, vacated by American troops only three years ago. "I don't think there's any appetite in our country for us to become engaged in any more military activity in Iraq," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said. "Are we going to refight the war that we just got out of?" she asked. Another reliable opponent of Obama administration foreign policy, Sen. Lindsey Graham, acknowledged that Americans are tired of dealing with conflicts in the Middle East. "But the people that are moving into Iraq and holding ground in Syria have on their agenda not only to drive us out of the Mideast but hit our homeland," he said. Sen. Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan who chairs the Armed Services Committee, told reporters that all options should be on the table but warned against a hasty response. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat from California, also expressed concern, indicating the outcome could be devastating if militants continue to move forward. 5 predictions revisited: Iraq's troubles are years in the making The siege of Mosul: What's happening? Recording: ISIS promises more fighting in more Iraqi cities CNN's Jim Acosta, Laura Bernardini and Dana Davidsen contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/12/world/meast/iraq-violence/index.html	world	Obama: Iraq needs help as ISIS threatens to seize more cities - CNN.com	2014/06/12	Thursday Jun 12 12:05:07 EDT 2014	Visit CNN Arabic and get updates on Iraq in Arabic. (CNN) -- Iraq is going to need more help from the United States and the international community, U.S. President Barack Obama said Thursday as a militant group gained control of Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city. The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, is threatening the takeover of more cities, including the capital, Baghdad. ISIS wants to establish an Islamic caliphate, or state, stretching across the region. Speaking to reporters at the White House, the President said the U.S. "will not rule anything out" with regard to the unrest in Iraq. "This is an area that we have been watching with a lot of concern," he said. A senior administration official told CNN that sending troops into Iraq is not being considered. "No boots on ground," the official said. Earlier Thursday, ISIS spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani purportedly can be heard in an audio recording posted on the group's media website. "Continue your march as the battle is not yet raging," the voice says. "It will rage in Baghdad and Karbala. So be ready for it." CNN cannot confirm the authenticity of the 17-minute-long audio statement or the time of its recording. "Don't give up a hand's width of ground you've liberated," the voice continues, seeming to encourage the militant fighters. For its part, the Iraqi government claimed a victory as well. Tikrit, the hometown of former leader Saddam Hussein, was under full control of the military Thursday, state-run Iraqiya TV said. Just a day earlier, it appeared largely to have fallen to the militant fighters. The Iraqi military carried out airstrikes overnight, targeting the al-Ghazlany military base, just five kilometers south of Mosul where a group of ISIS militants are believed to be based, the Iraqi Defense Ministry said in a statement Thursday. Speaking in London, Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari told CNN on Thursday that the government has "taken a number of steps to push back the terrorists" but that the takeover of Mosul had been a "major security setback." He said the Iraqi army in the city had "collapsed, basically," and commanders were fleeing north. "The government has to take a ... serious look at the makeup and the doctrine of the new Iraqi armed forces. You cannot run a country with such commanders." But Zebari also said there were "already indications" the militants were pulling out of Mosul, adding that the government was working with Kurdish regional powers to push them out. His statements were made as footage surfaced on social media sites Thursday purportedly showing ISIS militants parading heavy artillery through Mosul. Iraqi official: Nobody has called for U.S. troops Zebari declined to give a clear answer when asked what assistance Iraq had requested from the United States. But he said, "Nobody has called ... for the introduction (of) American troops into Iraq." Zebari said Washington has been cooperative and has a responsibility to be proactive in Iraq's fight against terrorism. The United States has helped and can help with "a whole range of options," including counterintelligence training and supplying equipment and munitions, he added. Iraq's parliament failed to hold an emergency session Thursday to vote on declaring a state of emergency, as al-Maliki had requested, Iraqiya TV reported. Some Iraqi lawmakers refused to attend Thursday's session to prevent a quorum. Their deadlock may be reflective of the increasingly sectarian divide in both Iraq's military and government. While acknowledging the need for the Shia-dominated government to be more inclusive, Zebari called for lawmakers to rise above divisions and unite in the face of the threat from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. "Really, this is not the time to be involved in these internal political differences," he said. "We are facing a larger threat." Red Cross: Don't target civilians While the violence continued, the International Committee of the Red Cross pleaded Thursday that civilians be spared. "Civilians must not be attacked and they must be allowed to move freely to safer areas," said Patrick Youssef, head of the ICRC delegation in Iraq. "Civilian structures such as homes, hospitals, schools or places of worship must not be targeted." ICRC personnel in Kirkuk, Dohuk, Irbil and Baghdad are paying close attention the situation, Youssef said, noting that Mosul is enduring power shortages. Hospitals there have the capacity to treat large numbers of people, he said, but some have stopped functioning. ICRC staff members have distributed one-month food parcels and other relief items to more than 10,000 people displaced in Zummar and in Al-Qosh, north of Mosul. More food and other supplies will be delivered soon, Youssef said. The ICRC is appealing to all the parties involved in the unrest, he added. How to respond to the ISIS threat The International Rescue Committee said it was "deeply concerned" about the displacement of Iraqis fleeing the violence and the Syrian refugees in Iraq who fled fighting in their country. "The potential toxic brew of two neighboring countries in such a volatile region imploding has grave humanitarian consequences," IRC said Thursday in a statement. Government open to U.S. strikes on militants The devastating militant advance, which had been building for some time, is proving an object lesson of much that is wrong in Iraq and the region -- growing sectarian tensions at home and a festering civil war over the border in Syria. It also shows that extremists can strike swiftly and effectively against Iraq's American-trained security forces. It came as little surprise when Iraq indicated a willingness Wednesday for the U.S. military to conduct airstrikes against the radical Islamist militants. Washington has provided $15 billion in training, weapons and equipment to the Iraqi government. But U.S. officials said the situation is "extremely urgent," and the United States is looking to see what more support it can provide Iraq. Part of the help involves giving Iraq intelligence it can use to go after the militant group. National Security Council spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan said the White House was looking at a range of options, but "the current focus of our discussions with the government of Iraq and our policy considerations is to build the capacity of the Iraqis to successfully confront and deal with the threat." When the militants attacked the northern cities of Mosul and Tikrit, government forces took off, leaving their weapons behind. There clearly was a breakdown in Iraqi security, a U.S. official said. But Washington says it was caused by a combination of factors, including that Iraqi forces were already stretched thin by limited success against ISIS in another province, the insurgency-racked Anbar. Rapid takeovers For now, militants remain in control of Mosul, a predominantly Sunni city of 1.6 million that collapsed swiftly Tuesday. The heavily armed radicals overran police stations, freed more than 1,000 prisoners from the city jail and took over the international airport. Iraqi forces ran in the face of the onslaught, leaving behind uniforms, weapons and armored vehicles. Since then, more than 500,000 people have fled the fighting there, the International Organization for Migration said Wednesday. The U.N. refugee agency said many left with little more than the clothes on their backs and were in urgent need of shelter, water, food and medical care. On Wednesday, militants raided the Turkish Consulate in Mosul, capturing 48 people, including diplomats. "If any harm is done to any of our citizens, it will not go unanswered," said Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. "No one should test Turkey." On Thursday he said during a televised news conference that the health of the Turkish diplomats and nationals who were captured is "fine." The government will "continue working around the clock and will continue working until they all return home safely," he vowed. The militants also seized parts of Baiji, a small town where Iraq's largest oil refinery is located. For the government to reinforce its troops in Mosul, it needs to drive them through Baiji. If the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, controls the town, the government's task will be much harder. A silver lining? However, one silver lining, the American officials said, is that Iraq seems to have a coordinated approach with the semiautonomous Kurdish regional government. It appears that Iraqi forces will team up with Kurdish fighters, known as the Peshmerga, to fight the militant group. Peshmerga forces took up positions in southwest Kirkuk after militants took over areas north and west of the city, and the Iraqi army withdrew, according to police officials there. Helgort Hakmet, head of the media office of the Kurdistan Peshmerga Ministry, told CNN on Thursday that Kurdish troops now control the entire province of Kirkuk. Local police forces are still in charge of the security inside the city of Kirkuk, he said, about 165 miles (266 kilometers) north of Baghdad. The Iraqi government hopes the militants can also be beaten back elsewhere. "This is not the end, we are very confident that we will be able to correct the path and to overcome mistakes," the Iraqi Defense Ministry said on its website. Earlier this year, ISIS took control of the city of Falluja and parts of Ramadi. Across the border in Syria, it controls towns such as Raqqa. It is capable of fighting the forces of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad on one hand, fellow radicals on another and the Iraqi government on top of that -- an indication of the depth to which the group has established itself in the region, experts have said. On Wednesday, the U.S. State Department updated its travel warning for Iraq. Terrorist activity and violence, it said, are at "levels unseen since 2007." Read: ISIS: The first terror group to build an Islamic State? Read: Predictions revisited: Iraq's troubles are years in the making, experts say Read: The siege of Mosul: What's happening? Why is it significant? CNN's Faith Karimi, Salma Abdelaziz, Hamdi Alkhshali, Yousuf Basil, Jim Acosta, Jason Hanna and Mohammed Tawfeeq contributed to this report. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/11/world/meast/iraq-predictions-revisited/index.html	world	5 predictions revisited: Iraq's current woes were years in the making - CNN.com	2014/06/11	Wednesday Jun 11 10:49:45 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- What's happening now in Iraq is dramatic, significant, quite possibly historic. But, to some, it is not surprising. Militants believed to be from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, also known as ISIS, overmatched government forces and now control a vast swath of its territory. Hundreds of thousands have fled, becoming refugees overnight. Sectarian violence plagues some areas not under ISIS control. And amid all this, some believe the Baghdad-based central government won't be able to do much about it. Some of these developments, like the fall of Mosul, have been swift and sudden. Others, such as the tensions between Shiite and Sunni Muslims, date back for decades, if not centuries. But all this trouble didn't come out of nowhere. For years, experts have predicted that various factors -- some rooted in history, some of them related to recent big decisions, some functions of what's happening in the region -- could foster instability and violence in Iraq. PREDICTION: Breaking up the army after Saddam Hussein's fall could haunt Iraq While not as big as what it had been prior to the 1991 Gulf War, Iraq's military under Saddam Hussein boasted an estimated 430,000 soldiers and another 400,000 personnel in paramilitary units and security services when U.S.-led troops invaded in spring 2003. Still, the Iraqis proved no match for coalition forces. After the military was overrun, it was dissolved -- along with Iraq's defense and information ministries -- by Paul Bremer, the top U.S. civilian administrator in Iraq. That left hundreds of thousands of troops suddenly out of work. Those with ranks of colonel and above -- who knew the most about strategy, tactics and more -- were hit even harder, as they weren't entitled to severance packages and couldn't work for the new Iraqi government. Then they had to go somewhere. According to Fawaz Gerges, a professor at the London School of Economics and Political Science, "hundreds, if not thousands, of skilled officers of Saddam Hussein's ... joined ISIS." That means this militant force -- even as it is supplemented by foreign fighters -- is trained and knows Iraq well. And its leaders may be more organized, strategically savvy and adept at fighting than some in Iraq's current military. "(This) has allowed ISIS to basically have skills, to have motivation, to have command and control," Gerges told CNN. "It's a mini-army fighting both in Iraq and Syria." How to respond to the ISIS threat PREDICTION: Syria's civil war will destabilize the region ISIS is not just fighting, it's winning. As of Wednesday, the militant group had taken over not just Iraq's second-largest city in Mosul but also Tikrit (which is Saddam's hometown). It has a major presence in northeastern Syria. That latter fact speaks to how ISIS -- after the group it emerged from, al Qaeda in Iraq, suffered heavy losses in the 2000s -- was able to emerge as a significant, and stronger, fighting force. This growth is thanks, in large part, to the success that ISIS has had in Syria since 2011, when that country's civil war began. In that time, the militant group gained experience, recruits and resources as it gobbled up territory -- and, with it, millions of dollars and military firepower that has helped it to flourish. And Ramzy Mardini, a fellow at the Atlantic Council think tank now in Jordan, says there's been a "concerted effort to merge Iraq and Syria into one sectarian theater," crediting what's happened in Syria with breathing "new life into militancy in Iraq, rejuvenating their confidence, resources and cause." "And they have an agenda," adds CNN's Nic Robertson, referring to ISIS's goal to create a caliphate -- or an Islamic state -- across a vast area that includes Syria and Iraq. "We're now seeing ... that agenda (in action)." British Foreign Secretary William Hague agrees that the Syrian conflict has negatively affected other countries, such as Iraq. That is one major reason why, he says, some accord needs to be reached in Syria -- though that won't solve everything. "(The regional unrest) underlines the importance of renewed efforts over the coming months to bring about a political solution in Syria," Hague told CNN's Christiane Amanpour. "But in Iraq ... it is also vital that there is some political progress that helps the Iraqi government respond effectively to this." PREDICTION: Divisions between Shiite, Sunni Muslims cannot be overcome By "political progress," Hague was likely referring to the sectarian divide that defines Iraqi politics and government. The latter is led by Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, a Shiite Muslim. Sunni Muslims -- the minority in Iraq -- often find themselves left out. "The single biggest error" after the 2003 tippling of Saddam Hussein was not making reconciliation a higher priority, according to Mardini. Even then, James Jeffrey, U.S. ambassador to Iraq from 2010 to 2012, doesn't think that it was inevitable Shiite and Sunnis in Iraq would be at loggerheads, as they are now. The veteran diplomat, now a fellow at The Washington Institute for Near East Policy think tank, says that "Sunnis by and large had bought into the new Iraq." They served in the Iraqi military, some of them as generals. But in the last few years, relations have gone downhill. Jeffrey points to what's happened in Syria, issues with Iraq's military and the fact that both the military and the government are increasingly divided along sectarian lines. "There was the atrocious political campaign against Sunnis ... and simply a lack of effort to bring Sunnis into the government," said the former ambassador. Well before the recent events in Mosul, this sectarian strife has manifest itself in violence. About 8,000 civilians were killed in 2013, in what the United Nations says was the deadliest year for civilians since 2008. Outright violence isn't the only problem. It's also a matter of trust. To that end, it's hard to state how much animosity some Sunnis have for al-Maliki and his government. And ISIS has tried to take advantage, Gerges explained. "The rift has allowed ISIS to basically position itself as the spearhead of the Sunni community," Gerges said. "It has found a ... refuge and a social base. That particular social base among the Sunni community has allowed ISIS to gain momentum and recruits." Granted, this momentum could be stopped. Gerges said doing so will require convincing the vast majority of Sunnis that they are better off with a Baghdad-based government -- maybe one that's more of a unity government, with more Sunni inclusion -- than living under radical Islamist militants. But picking which is the lesser of two evils for Sunnis may not be simple. "The Sunni population does not want to be dominated by (ISIS); they went through that in 2004," said Jeffrey, the former American ambassador. "But by the same token, they are disillusioned with the Iraqi government in Baghdad." PREDICTION: The United States will regret pulling out of Iraq So what can be done to stop militants from a group that even al Qaeda has disowned, for its excessive and abusive actions in Syria, from taking over Iraq? Jeffrey doesn't think offering amnesty to some Sunni fighters or forming a unity government will do much to seriously "change the dynamic" overall. The landscape could be altered, he says, by military intervention by Turkey (which might have special motivation given the conflict's tight proximity to its border and the fact militants seized dozens at its consulate in Mosul) or by Iran (which is a Shiite state, and thus has a natural alliance with al-Maliki). Then, of course, the U.S. military could act. It's done so before, sending tens of thousands of troops into the Middle Eastern nation during the 2003 invasion. While units rolled in and out, the military stayed there for years -- peaking at 166,300 troops in October 2007, according to the Defense Department. Chart: U.S. troop levels in Iraq But they were all gone by the start of 2012, fulfilling a vow made by President Barack Obama. That move drew sharp criticism in some circles. Michael Hayden, the National Security Agency director from 1999 to 2005 who led the CIA in President George W. Bush's last 2 years in office, characterized the withdrawal as a mistake that may undermine the country and the region. "Whatever the withdrawal means in purely physical terms in Iraq," Hayden wrote in a CNN.com op-ed, "the psychic impact there and in the region is that America is less interested. In Iraq that means that each of the factions are going to their sectarian corners and are preparing to come out fighting." It's not like the United States cut ties with Iraq entirely or that it's backing away more now. A Defense Department official says about $15 billion in equipment, training and other services, and firepower including helicopter-fired rockets, machine guns, grenades and rifles have gone to Iraq. Another $1 billion in arms and goods, including up to 200 Humvees, are in the works. "We are committed to ensuring that ammunition and equipment Iraq needs in its current fight are delivered as quickly as possible," the official said. A U.S. official said the Iraqi government has indicated a willingness for the United States to conduct airstrikes to help repel insurgents. But there has been no indication that American troops will be back to fighting on the ground in Iraq anytime soon. PREDICTION: Iraq won't stay together, over the long term Without combat intervention from another country, saving Iraq -- as it's currently constituted -- is up to its military and government. Will they be up to the task? Recent developments aren't particularly encouraging. Witnesses reported Iraqi security forces abandoned their posts in droves in Mosul, some of them dropping their weapon, taking off their uniforms and running. And, of course, militants have had success in many other parts of the country, with government fighters sometimes offering sparse resistance. Jeffrey said better training of Iraq's military, more effective air power and better counterterrorism capabilities may have stopped, or at least slowed, the ISIS onslaught. But now, the longtime diplomat said, Iraq's military is "ill-trained, badly led and not particularly competent." "They clearly cannot fire and maneuver," said Jeffrey, a U.S. Army veteran. The Baghdad-based government to which these troops report doesn't inspire confidence in some circles, either. As CNN's Robertson notes, it's challenged enough "putting out ... fires all over the country, never mind rallying troops to Mosul." Mardini, from the Atlantic Council, says intelligence, logistics and communication are lacking, though not all these deficiencies can explain the Iraqi security forces' performance recently. "Iraq is a million-man police state," he said. "It has manpower and capabilities, but it lacks in discipline and professionalism." Plus, the government's frayed relations with anyone who is not Shiite -- be they Sunnis or Kurds, in the semiautonomous region in Iraq's northeast -- make creating a united front difficult. Part of the challenge is that many Iraqi feel more loyalty to their groups -- be they Shiite, Sunni or Kurd -- than to Iraq as a whole. No other than U.S. Vice President Joe Biden proposed, in a 2006 joint New York Times editorial, that one way to keep Iraq united is by "giving each ethno-religious group ... room to run its own affairs." For all the doubts, Iraq's government believes that the country can remain as one. And the military, it says, will be a big reason why. "This is not the end," the Defense Ministry vowed in a statement. "We are very confident that we will be able to correct the path and to overcome mistakes." The siege of Mosul: What's happening? ISIS militants press forward, threaten to seize more Iraqi cities  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/11/opinion/cooper-quilliam-isis-mosul-takeover/index.html	opinion	How ISIS and Iraq upheaval threatens the wider world - CNN.com	2014/06/11	Wednesday Jun 11 08:24:45 EDT 2014	Editor's note: Charlie Cooper is a researcher on the Middle East at Quilliam, a think tank formed to combat extremism. The opinions in this commentary are solely his.  (CNN) -- The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) has taken over much of the Iraqi province of Nineveh, including the country's second largest city, Mosul. In the course of doing so, they have released thousands of jihadist prisoners, reportedly taken hundreds of people hostage and -- perhaps most worryingly of all -- fortified their already strong territorial position in the region. The group has made impressive gains in the last year. Besides this week's achievements, ISIS have come to dominate the international media discourse on the war in Syria and wrested control of the city of Falluja, which, astonishingly, is less than an hour from Baghdad. We should be worried. This, after all, is a group that was rejected by al Qaeda because of its ferocity. Its mysterious leaders are far beyond the extremist pale, and that they seem to be consolidating a territorial base must be put at the forefront of international counter-terrorism policy. ISIS, currently led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is an al Qaeda offshoot and a spawn of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's Islamic State of Iraq (ISI). For the ISI, the last few years have been rocky to say the least, but the unprecedented instability caused by the Syrian civil war has given the group a new lease of life. Since it was formed when al-Baghdadi announced an unanticipated (by all sides) merger with Jabhat al-Nusra in April 2013, ISIS has gone from strength to strength. Commentators on Syria often refer to ISIS as the most radical of the myriad jihadist factions operating there. For some reason, though, coverage from Iraq this week has stuck to calling them Sunni "rebels," "insurgents" or "militants." These terms of reference are woefully unsuitable -- ISIS fighters in Iraq are of exactly the same inclination as those in Syria, who have repeatedly been called out for their unparalleled barbarity on -- and off -- the battlefield. This doesn't just matter to Iraq, though, it matters to the rest of the world as well. In the wider region, ISIS's presence in Syria will continue to skew the fight against the Assad regime for the worse. After all, these "rebels" are fighting the same people as the Syrian army. On an international level, any gains for ISIS are particularly troubling because it is by far the most popular group for foreign fighters to join. This is because, more than anything else, their membership requirements are minimal -- far less, for example than those for Jabhat al-Nusra. Citizens from across the world who have been going to fight in Syria -- Europeans and Americans included -- usually end up fighting alongside ISIS. Syria commentators and counter-terrorism experts alike have warned time and again of the threat posed by ISIS returnees: if they are already extremists when they go out to Syria, what they are when they return is significantly more dangerous, not least because of the weapons training they receive. The Long War Journal has also reported that foreign ISIS fighters operate in single-nation battalions, something which equips them even better to bring the terrorist threat back home. The shooting in May at Brussels' Jewish Museum was probably the first instance of a returnee ISIS fighter committing a terrorist offence. It will most likely not be the last. A frequently-referenced study into foreign fighters in 1980s Afghanistan concluded that about one in nine returnees went on to commit terrorism offences. That may not sound like much, but if one considers that there are an estimated 2,000 EU citizens fighting in Syria now (according to Europol, the European Union's law enforcement agency) it becomes a far more troubling statistic. Syria aside, ISIS's new dominance in northwestern Iraq will be the principal destabiliser of the region. If left alone, Nineveh will become a jihadist's playground, one that will welcome -- and train up -- any foreigner sympathetic to ISIS's ideology. Besides that, though, the world needs to act because of the terrible risk this runs for Iraq's Shi'ite population, a minority in Nineveh but still numbering in the thousands. ISIS has a fetish for anti-Shia sectarianism and is also reported to have targeted Christians. They are certain to perpetrate many more horrific offences there if left unchallenged. The international community has a humanitarian and strategic prerogative to act against ISIS's most recent gains in Iraq; the Iraqi government needs as much support as it can get in challenging ISIS. Aside from a robust military response, Iraqi President Nuri al Maliki's government needs to challenge the jihadists ideologically. He needs to reach out to the disenfranchised Sunni population, a group that has become marginalised economically and socially during his time in power, for this is the well from which most ISIS fighters are drawn. Taking a purely heavy-handed approach will just feed into the jihadist propaganda. Encouragingly, al Maliki seemed receptive to such suggestions in March when he attended, alongside Quilliam representatives, Baghdad's first anti-terrorism conference. One thing is for sure, though, and that is that this is Iraq's war now, and no one else's. READ MORE: 500,000 civilians flee Mosul fighting  READ MORE: Siege of Mosul: What's happening?  
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/11/us/undocumented-children-immigrants-abuse-complaint/index.html	us	Sexual abuse of minors alleged at border as kids flock into U.S. - CNN.com	2014/06/11	Wednesday Jun 11 10:59:59 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Threats of violence. Sexual abuse. Strip searches. Dirty conditions. Young mothers whose children became sick. These are among the reported abuses of 116 minors by agents from U.S. Customs and Border Protection, according to a complaint filed Wednesday by the American Civil Liberties Union and four immigrant-rights groups. The groups say in their complaint that the incidents have been occurring for years and called for an investigation and improved federal policies toward young undocumented immigrants. "Given these longstanding problems, and in light of the rising number of unaccompanied children seeking relief from dangerous conditions in their home countries, the need for broad and lasting agency reforms is clear," the complaint says. A spokesman for Customs and Border Protection said the agency has taken "extraordinary measures" to look after the children, some of whom are new parents. Michael Friel wrote in an e-mail that children get regular meals and drinks, constant monitoring, and those who appear sick get medical care. "Mistreatment or misconduct is not tolerated," he added. The crisis of unaccompanied minors from countries such as El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras is growing. Because the children are not from countries that border the United States, federal law prohibits them from being immediately deported. Instead, after three days they are turned over to the Department of Health and Human Services. But the ACLU and the other organizations say children have too often reported incidents of abuse, freezing cold cells and rooms where dozens of people are jammed in with access to only one toilet. About 70% said they were held past the 72-hour detention period. Four out of five described a lack of water and enough food, according to the complaint, addressed to the Department of Homeland Security's Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties and the department's inspector general. Americans for Immigrant Justice, the Esperanza Immigrant Rights Project, the Florence Immigrant and Refugee Rights Project and the National Immigrant Justice Center also joined the complaint. The children were between the ages of 5 and 17 when the incidents allegedly occurred. DHS wouldn't comment on whether it was investigating the allegations. Chris Cabrera, a leader of a chapter of the National Border Patrol Council, a labor union representing U.S. Border Patrol agents, estimated that more than 60,000 unaccompanied juveniles will cross the Mexican border with the United States in 2014 and that the numbers will rise from there. Many of the youths turn themselves in to the Border Patrol. "They know that once they get to the station, we are going to give them paperwork and we are going to set them free into the United States," Cabrera said. The numbers are overwhelming American facilities, particularly in Texas. On Wednesday, Homeland Security chief Jeh Johnson told a Senate committee that he recently visited the border. He also told Judiciary Committee that the U.S. would open three new facilities to house the children and would pull scores of agents from their duties watching the border so they could watch the youths. Obama vows urgent action as children make perilous illegal journey Opinion: Border detention of children shames America CNN's Mary Kay Mallonee contributed to this story. 
http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/11/showbiz/celebrity-news-gossip/dave-chappelle-david-letterman-chappelles-show/index.html	entertainment	Dave Chappelle to David Letterman: 'I never quit' - CNN.com	2014/06/11	Wednesday Jun 11 04:20:53 EDT 2014	(CNN) -- Dave Chappelle wants to clear up a misconception: He never quit "Chappelle's Show," his hit Comedy Central series. "Technically, I never quit," he said in an appearance on "The Late Show with David Letterman." "I'm seven years late for work." Chappelle's television appearance was a rarity. Since the last episodes of "Chappelle's Show" aired in 2006, he's done just a handful of TV interviews, the last with Conan O'Brien in 2008, when O'Brien was still hosting "Late Night" on NBC. Chappelle has talked about a variety of reasons for ending the program, including burnout and the inability to devote time to his standup career. He hasn't been a hermit, however. Last year he participated in Funny Or Die's Oddball Comedy & Curiosity Festival, and he also has dropped by comedy clubs to perform. With Letterman, Chappelle -- cracking wise and looking sharp in a gray windowpane suit -- talked about disappearing to South Africa during the height of the controversy about the show's future and the truckloads of money Comedy Central was rumored to have offered him to continue. "It was like living in the corner of perception and reality. It's a weird place to be," he said of the rumors surrounding his Africa trip. Rumors have a way of taking on a life of their own, he added: "When everyone thought Wesley Snipes was in jail, I saw him at a party." As for the Comedy Central deal, said to be as high as $50 million? Well, money can't buy everything, Chappelle told Letterman. Sometimes he wonders about the "what ifs"; other times he's fine with the way things have gone. He said he was at a restaurant with his wife and saw a man across the room. "He has $100 million, and we're eating the same entree," Chappelle told Letterman. Even though he may have less money than the $100 million man, "the difference in lifestyle is miniscule." He summed it up, literally. "The only difference between having $10 million and $50 million," he started -- and took a long pause -- "is an astounding $40 million."  
